The Project Gutenberg eBook of In Camp with L Company, by George W. Petty

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: In Camp with L Company
       Second Regiment New Jersey Volunteer Infantry

Author: George W. Petty

Release Date: January 28, 2021 [eBook #64406]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Graeme Mackreth The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IN CAMP WITH L COMPANY ***



[Illustration: "STARTS US ON OUR JOURNEY AND THE BEGINNING OF OUR
LITTLE WORLD OF WARFARE."]




 IN CAMP WITH

 L COMPANY

 [Illustration]

 Second Regiment

 New Jersey Volunteer Infantry

 [Illustration]

 BY

 CORPORAL GEORGE W. PETTY

[Illustration]




 WYNKOOP HALLENBECK CRAWFORD CO.
 PRINTERS
 NEW YORK AND ALBANY




To the officers, and the men in the ranks, of my company, and to the
memory of departed comrades, this book is respectfully dedicated.

 The Author




 "God of all nations! Sovereign Lord!
 In Thy dread name we draw the sword
 We lift the starry flag on high
 That fills with light our stormy sky."




PREFACE

[Illustration]


In writing this book it has not been my purpose to compile a history
of our Company, which would necessitate the gathering together of its
records, which of themselves would be dry and uninteresting to the
average reader, but such a narrative as would give to our friends a
wider knowledge of our everyday life while in the service, and to my
comrades that feeling of kinship so dear to the soldier's heart.




PART FIRST




THE MUSTERING

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

Company L was organized and mustered into the State service June
22, 1893, and assigned as the 11th company of the Second Regiment
with headquarters at Paterson, with the following officers: Addison
Ely, Captain; Wilkin Bookstaver, First Lieutenant; Joseph J. Blake,
Second Lieutenant. Lieutenant Bookstaver resigned in February, 1896,
Lieutenant Blake was promoted to First Lieutenant and First Sergeant
Robert A. Brunner was promoted to Second Lieutenant. From its first
season at rifle practice the Company was a decided factor in the
making up of the State records; the first year, out of fifty-six
companies it stood sixth, in 1895 it was fourth and in 1897 second
on the list with ten sharpshooters and fifty-eight marksmen, pushing
Company C of Paterson hard for first honors, that company having twelve
sharpshooters and sixty marksmen. A match was arranged in the fall of
'97 between the companies composing the Second Battalion, E, F, G and
L, ten men constituting a team; this match we won handily.

Matches between the squads proved exciting and interesting, the prize
being a silver loving cup donated by Lieutenant Brunner. Our range
being on the meadows not only insured safety, but was actually one of
the best ranges used by any Company in the State. Our discipline was
excellent and our annual inspection invariably showed 100 per cent.
The armory was built during the winter of 1896-7, and was formally
opened in March, 1897, with a grand fair which was honored by a visit
of Governor Griggs and a large number of military and civic officers.
It cost about $20,000, and contains, besides a large drill-room, a well
appointed stage, meeting rooms and living apartments.

During the winter of 1897-8 particular attention was given to
Regimental, Battalion and Company drills in extended order and when
spring opened and the mutterings of war were heard, the Company had
been drilled quite thoroughly in battle exercises, and an enthusiasm
had been instilled, so that every man was on his mettle. It was
natural, then, that when the orders came the Company was enabled to
turn out a larger percentage of National Guardsmen than any other
Company in the regiment. The personnel of the entire body insured an
honorable mention in the State annals. Our officers were capable and
well liked; and the non-commissioned officers, that body of men in our
armies which are the fighting unit, were a potent factor in our make
up. How well these officers and subs did their duty the records of
details, escorts, provost guards, etc., will show.

[Illustration]

April 30, 1898, the orders we had been expecting arrived and from
this time on a nervous excitement prevailed in the armory and spread
for miles around. Final visits were made; business affairs wound up;
underclothing bought, and when Sunday evening arrived it found us all
ready to start. During the night the telegraph ticked off the rumors
of the battle in Manila harbor, and at dawn all the country was aflame
with patriotism and eager to know the facts. Every hour brought fresh
tidings of that grand victory and it was with lighter hearts and more
cheerful faces that we set about our final task.

Everywhere now was bustle and excitement, but it was freely predicted
that we would not get further than Sea Girt, and we heard this repeated
so often that we began to be rather anxious to be off, as if afraid the
war would end before we had fairly got in it. The time to don our war
togs came at last; mothers, sisters and sweethearts were given final
injunctions not to worry, just as if we expected they would obey, and
then we repaired to the armory, where the excitement was at fever heat
and the crowd of sightseers outside pushed and swayed, the boys were
impatient to be off. The clear notes of the bugle sound the assembly.
The command to fall in is given. The drill-room is hushed, but the
excitement is still there. Impatient commands are given and finally the
sharp command, "March!" starts us on our journey and the beginning of
our little world of warfare.

But bedlam had broken loose. Steadily we marched out of the doorway,
only to face a great crowd. Our feelings were various at this time, I
doubt not. Personally I wanted to get away from that crowd and felt
angry that they should be cheering so, not daring to look aside, but
deaf to all the shouts of encouragement. I was fully realizing the
fact that it was not such a fine thing to leave home and friends for
a perilous two years of strife and bloodshed. Finally reaching the
station by a circuitous route, we waited fully an hour for the train.
This was extremely trying to us, but amid an outburst of cheers we
boarded it bound for camp, and now our spirits rose, for we were off,
and instead of looking behind it was forward, and we determined then
and there to make the best of everything as we found it, and that duty
in its plainest, boldest light lay before us, and now was the time
to begin. Our officers and non-coms were hurrying through the cars,
making up lists, detailing guards, making assignments. Every engine we
passed saluted us with deafening screeches; factory, street and doorway
contributed their share of waving handkerchiefs and cheering crowds,
the streets of Newark near the station were packed with people, and so
the patriotism followed us all the way to Sea Girt, which was reached
at four in the evening.

Immediately disembarking, we formed rapidly and marched to the camp
grounds, passing in review before the Governor. This was my first view
of the War Man of our State. Standing upon a horse block in front of
the White House with uncovered head and a sober, serious countenance,
Governor Voorhees impressed me with the belief that he, at least, felt
the full responsibility of his position. Well and nobly did he fill
it. From Trenton he brought his headquarters to Sea Girt and there he
stayed until he saw the last regiment depart for the south, having
ceaselessly urged forward equipments, personally looked after the
comfort of the men, taken a deep and thoughtful interest in all our
surroundings, and finally bid us Godspeed upon our journey, a loyal,
devout patriot.

As we marched to our streets ominous mutterings and black storm clouds
in the west warned us to get sheltered as quickly as possible; and at
the word, ranks were broken and a wild scramble for tents began; but we
were soon roused out again to get sacks of straw to sleep upon. This
news was comforting, for the fresh green sod, still moist from recent
rains, was anything but inviting. The sacks were intended for two
battalions. Our battalion was to have had cots. There was considerable
confusion and orders got mixed, so we sailed in with the other fellows
to get sacks. These were stored at the rear of the mess houses about
200 yards back of the camp. Eight hundred men got the order at the same
time and all made a dash for the pile. The sacks were about seven feet
long and it was a most ludicrous spectacle to see the men dragging
these clumsy things after them. The field seemed alive with great brown
ants crawling after each man. The boys enjoyed the fun greatly. Guards
were being posted and we soon made ready for the night. While the
blankets were being issued it commenced to rain; and after eating the
last crust of bread we had brought from home, we turned in and slept
soundly.

Tuesday we received cots, while those tents which could boast of floors
were given the sacks.

The rations or "grub" served the first day consisted of a small piece
of steak and a whole loaf of bread. The bread broken in half with the
meat between would make a home made sandwich that could be eaten on
the installment plan. The loaf was our allowance of bread for the day.
Coffee of rather doubtful quality was served, also one whole boiled
potato, and some of them appeared to have grown for a couple of years.
This breakfast was duplicated every day during the week. At dinner the
meat ration was varied by bacon, liver or fish.

Mustering officers and surgeons were very busy all the time, and
companies of the First and Third were constantly passing our tents,
to and from the mustering field. Orders were received to hurry up the
mustering of the Second Regiment. Rumor had it that we were to go to
Washington in a few days, the Third to stay and the First to go to
Chickamauga Park to act with the Regulars in the contemplated invasion
of Cuba. During the week the showers and wet fields kept us continually
indoors and the first Sunday in camp it rained a flood. The streets
were turned into quagmires and every now and then the slip-slop of some
soldier passing the tent made the situation all the more gloomy.

[Illustration]

Detailed news of Commodore Dewey's victory in Manila harbor reached
us Sunday morning. The completeness of it, with such slight injury to
ourselves, was pronounced as marvelous and cheering broke through the
sodden air, stirring the dripping camp to life and action.

This day was my initiation as Corporal in Guard Mounting and, although
the Junior Corporal present, I was detailed to take out the first
relief. It rained incessantly and at nine in the evening the guard was
dismissed. My face then was quite numb from exposure. At three o'clock
the next morning the guard resumed its duty.

The second week turned out to be a pretty stiff one for drills, the
weather being less wet. Friday, May 13th, we were examined by Surgeon
Brien of our Regiment and all but four passed. One man failed to
report; he had left camp for home. In the evening G Company started out
with fife and drum to have a good time. They carried nearly the whole
Battalion with them to the quarters of the commanding officers, who
were repeatedly called out and made short speeches amid much cheering,
after which the boys paraded through the camp. They were received with
considerable enthusiasm in every street. The escapade proved welcome,
for it diverted our thoughts from the weather.

I had been temporarily assigned to the Quartermaster's Department
shortly after our arrival at camp and was kept quite busy all the
time making up schedules of equipments for each Regiment, and these
were completed only within a few days of our departure south. Col.
George G. Felton, Deputy Quartermaster-General, was in charge and
was a most efficient officer. His department was a hive of industry,
unloading cars, filling quotas, making out lists and distributing to
the regiments, and when everything had been supplied he viewed with
satisfaction as well an equipped force as ever entered the volunteer
service of the United States.

[Illustration: SEA GIRT, N.J., MAY, 1898.]

While serving here I missed a number of marches the Company
participated in, the most notable being the march along the beach and
through the thick woods and swamps, ending with a vigorous charge over
the sand hills bordering the ocean.

The manual of arms used by the National Guard was abruptly changed
to conform to the army manual and this change was brought about in
an incredibly short time under the able instruction of our First
Lieutenant, and the movements were executed with marked precision.
Considerable attention was given to setting up exercises as practiced
by the United States Army, so that we became quite proficient in the
simpler movements. Though not having enough clear days to go more
deeply into the more difficult exercises, the Regiment in companies
would be at times seen on the field and it proved quite an interesting
sight.

The interesting ceremony of transforming us into soldiers of the
United States Army occurred on Saturday afternoon, May 14th, before
a large crowd of excursionists. Captain Ely being absent, Lieutenant
Blake formed the Company a little after noon and marched us to the
front of the mustering tent. Upon the arrival of the Captain the
ceremony proceeded.

As our names were called we formed in double time to the right of the
officer, the Sergeants and Corporals making the alignment. This was
to prove our actual presence. The names were again called. This time
the officers formed the first line, the non-commissioned officers the
second, and the balance, the third line, in company formation. An
opportunity to withdraw was then given, the penalties for disobedience,
desertion and other crimes enumerated in the articles of war were
explained. He then ordered us to take off our caps, raise our right
hands and swear to uphold the Government, fight _all_ its enemies and
be true soldiers of the United States, "so help me God." The Regiment
was mustered the next day.

The First Regiment received its marching orders May 16th and on the
19th we were formed to escort this finely equipped Regiment to the
station. They were bound for Camp Alger, near Washington, D.C. It was
believed at the time that this Regiment was to go to Cuba with the
first invading army and it was with intense interest that we watched
these stalwart men, most of them of Irish fighting stock, loaded down
with their equipments march silently past. We gave them a cheer and
a Godspeed as their train drew out. The episode sent us back to camp
thinking hard over the uncertainties of life and what was to be the
outcome of the war.

Up to this time the wet weather had made Sunday services impossible,
but Sunday, May 21st, was a grand day and after inspection of quarters
the men of the Second and Third Regiments assembled on the lawn at
the White House, while flags gayly fluttered, visitors arriving in
their best attire, carriages and bicycles on the outskirts, with
the ever-present green sward as a background stretching down to the
sea, made a memorable picture and as the Governor stepped from the
threshold of his cottage he could not but admire the pretty scene.

He motioned that his chair should be placed in the midst of "his boys"
instead of a more favorable position but apart from them. He took a
lively interest in the service and sang "Onward Christian Soldiers"
with as much vim as anybody. Chaplain Glazbrook of the Third early
interested his hearers by citing during his discourse an ancient fable
of an invincible, conquering warrior and his ultimate end.

As far as appearances went, the last week in camp turned us all into
sure enough soldiers, having been fully equipped for field service.
The distributing of underwear and clothing was unique in its way. Our
Quartermaster took my measure: For blouse, 36-inch; for trousers,
32-inch × 30-inch. This is what was issued to me: Blouse, 38-inch;
trousers, 34-inch × 31-inch; blue shirt, 15-1/2-inch; shoes, nothing
smaller than 8 or 9. After much protesting I finally consented to take
the above to be exchanged later. That later never came. Our Uncle
Sammy evidently believed in giving all his soldier boys plenty of room
for development.

Each Company now had a cooking arrangement, known as a "Buzzacott,"
invented by a private of that name in the Regular Army. It consisted of
a number of flat bars of iron welded together and resting on legs one
foot from the ground and so joined together as to fold up or take apart
as necessity demanded, the whole arrangement making a gridiron about
two feet wide by four feet long when in use; one field desk and cooking
utensils, while each man was provided with one suit of underwear,
socks, blue shirt, trousers and blouse of state uniform, campaign
hat, web cartridge belt, Springfield rifle, leggings, kit--viz, one
each combination frying pan and plate, knife, fork, tablespoon and
cup--haversack, knapsack, poncho, blanket and canteen. This outfit
would become complete when we received fifty rounds of ammunition and
it was just about as much as we could stagger under.

Manasquan had always been an enticing place even during our short stay
at camp for rifle practice in former years and it became doubly so now
as the boys formed acquaintances there, and notwithstanding the orders,
guard running was becoming quite an art and up to this time had been
very successful, so when an order was read at dress parade prescribing
penalties relating to this subject there were many long faces in the
ranks. These penalties were graded according to the seriousness of the
offense: guard house one to six days, ditto on bread and water; again
for absence without leave, "Carrying a forty pound pack six hours a day
for four days." The guilty ones were often seen fore and aft of a wagon
bringing sand from the beach for the low places in "Shoulder Strap row"
and doing other "chores."

The sentries were given strict orders to prevent this running out at
night and the bayonet was sometimes used with disagreeable effect. The
bands of discipline were tightened and the Regiment took a great brace.
The parades were superb and brought crowds from all the nearby towns,
and now that the sun shone the parade ground was a beautiful sight,
stretching down to the sea with its hundreds of tents laid out in
strict accordance to regulations.

Tent pitching and striking was practiced at every favorable opportunity
and was under the charge of a line officer, each Company detail under
the immediate supervision of its Artificer, assisted by the Sergeants
and Corporals.

[Illustration]

Thursday, May 25th, we formed for escort of the Third Regiment. We
had a different feeling this time, more of sympathy than otherwise,
for they were to do garrison duty at Fort Hancock, Sandy Hook
fortifications and at Pompton Plains to guard the powder mills there.
It rained hard at midnight just as each section was disembarking at its
destination. The Fort Hancock detail had a particularly sorry time of
it after leaving the cars.

Monday, May 30th, was observed as a holiday and enough men were gotten
together to form a battalion for the purpose of assisting the G.A.R.
at their services in Manasquan. This battalion was composed entirely
of the Sons of Veterans of the Civil War and was a striking example
of how fighting blood runs down through generations. That evening we
had parade and review before the Governor. A telegram from the War
Department was read in orders directing the Regiment to proceed at once
to Chickamauga Park.

This order was the prevailing topic of conversation for the rest
of the evening. During the night long trains of cars arrived, but
notwithstanding the nearness of our departure for the actual seat
of war, and Chickamauga was recognized as only a stepping stone to
Tampa, where the invading army was gathering, we slept soundly and
peacefully. Such was the effect of the fresh salt breezes from the
ocean and the outdoor life that in one short month our nervous systems
had been completely renovated, and exciting events could not make any
inroads upon our time for repose, but we always rose fresh and bright
at daylight, ready for the day's drills and exercises. Tuesday broke
bright and clear and found most of our "traps" packed and awaiting
final orders. I hastily arranged to take a night at home. All furloughs
had been stopped, but mine was "managed" with a few others, thanks
to our commanding officer. After visiting everybody we could in the
short time allotted to us we started for camp again Wednesday morning.
Arriving there at noon, we found all the tents down, baggage being
packed and the men sitting on their knapsacks eating hard tack. A few
lucky ones were eating sandwiches.

There was work ahead for me, however, and I was soon assisting on the
Company rolls, which were being made up for (as we thought) State pay.
While this was going on the Company was marched out and photographed.
It was a good picture, but unfortunately the Captain and a number of
men were left out, owing to absence on details. The sun shone from
an unclouded sky and with direct fierceness as if to atone for its
shyness for the past four weeks. Everything now being ready, tents and
baggage loaded, we marched out in heavy marching order and were again
photographed. Orders now arrived rapidly and we were soon forming for a
final review before the Governor.

Crowds had come down to see us off, and many were the tearful
farewells and handshakes. But what a load our equipments made. We had
discarded all the comforts and a great many things we believed we
could do without, but still there was an immense dead weight in those
knapsacks and the tinkling cups dangling from our haversacks added
to this discomfort. The repeated warnings and commands of "close up,
close up," caused the men, heavily loaded as they were, to jostle each
other while the veins in their foreheads stood out like whip cords.
The tremendous physical strain, together with the heat, made this a
never-to-be forgotten march, and was only equalled by the celebrated
"dust march" at the end of our journey. With very little delay we
boarded our section and with many a frantic farewell we started on our
long and eventful journey to the land of palms and soft breezes.




PART SECOND




THE JOURNEY SOUTH

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

At three thirty in the afternoon, June 2d, 1898, we pulled out of the
station at Sea Girt and immediately proceeded to make ourselves as
comfortable as possible. Each man had a seat to himself, these being
of the low backed variety. Our equipments we hung on the package
racks, and they jangled and banged with every movement of the car. We
had hardly gotten settled in our seats when we became aware that the
population all along our route had turned out to see us, and every
little cross road had its group of farm wagons and country people, who
had been there for hours, and cheered us as we passed. Our journey
became a continual ovation, which reached its height as we swung past
Monmouth Junction. At this place occurred the most touching sight it
was my fortune to witness during our eventful journey. As we drew
near the station a series of whistles brought every head in the car
to the window. Every doorstep, garden and fence had its waving flag.
The school children had been dismissed and had marched in a body to
the long freight platform at the depot. Along the whole front of this
line of children was stretched the national colors, while from their
hands waved the Emblem of Guardianship to our homes and little ones,
and tiny voices were singing patriotic songs. Up to this time I had
been skeptical of the patriotism of our people, believing that the
enthusiasm heretofore witnessed was merely a personal feeling, but
here were people utter strangers to us, bringing their children. And
why? Evidently to instill in their young minds that love of country
which they themselves had and for which many of them had suffered a
generation ago. All this burst upon me with indescribable rapidity and
I know that I was not the only one in that car who had something in
his throat which he did not like to speak of. Shortly after we struck
the main line of the P. & R.R.R. We reached Trenton at five o'clock
and crossed the Delaware. We were now going through a section much
travelled over by the opposing forces in the Revolutionary War, and
now occurred an altogether surprising and somewhat touching incident.
My tent-mate and I being seated opposite each other were admiring the
scenery; we had lost our bearings somewhat and had only a faint idea
as to where we were, when the train suddenly emerged from the hills
and presented before us a most beautiful landscape. He immediately
recognized it as the fertile and rich Chester Valley. He had lived in
this valley until he was nineteen years of age and became quite excited
as he found we would pass the threshold of his home, where he had left
his mother, brothers and sisters the week before. He knew all the
points of interest. On the ridge yonder was Washington's headquarters
where his shoeless army shivered and shook in their tattered garments
at Valley Forge during the winter of 1777-8. The remarkably clear
atmosphere enabled the General with his glasses to sweep the valley
for twenty miles. How many anxious glances he must have given in the
direction of Philadelphia. A short distance farther on we crossed
the Brandywine, that memorable stream on which the disastrous battle
was fought and Philadelphia was laid open to the enemy. There was
the stone dwelling in which the British General Gage, of Bunker Hill
fame, was when the information was brought him of the band of Patriots
sleeping peacefully around some hay ricks at Paoli, which resulted in
their surprise and massacre. Then we approached his home and he looked
eagerly to see if any one was around the house, but there was no one.
The carpenter shop in which he had learned his trade was pointed out.
We passed Phoenixville and my enthusiastic friend kept naming over the
villages, and often the names of householders within several miles of
his old home. Lime of the best quality is found in the soil of this
valley and accounts for the fertility of it. The sun now began to
sink in a blaze of gold and about eight in the evening we drew into
Harrisburg.

[Illustration]

Harrisburg is noted far and wide for its steel and iron industries,
and it was a most interesting sight to see the tall chimneys along
the approach to the city vomiting forth columns of flame high in the
air, lighting the whole neighborhood, while inside the foundries great
masses of red hot metal glowed and sparkled while going through the
molding process. But we never dreamed there were so many pretty girls
there, in fact we were literally besieged as soon as our section
arrived in the car sheds. Our officers were very positive in their
order that no one should leave the cars, so we had to look cheerful
while a fellow from some other Company walked off with the girl who
had turned up such a bewitching, beseeching face for "just a little
button." The boys from eleven companies of the Regiment had a mighty
good time while we were waiting here, but some of the girls didn't
mind being pulled up to a window and paying a forfeit as long as they
got the button, and when the trains finally drew out again the boys of
Company L had quite pleasant dreams of the Harrisburg girls. We had
been waiting here for about two hours when our Junior Lieutenant came
into the car and with a cheerfully serious face announced: "Well boys
we are in for it now; we are bound for Jacksonville, Florida." I think
an electric current must have passed through the car at that instant,
everybody jumped out of their seats so quickly. Jacksonville and Tampa
were about the same in our minds. It seems that Chickamauga Park was
filling too rapidly with troops and transportation was getting clogged;
hence the switching us off to the south. It was estimated that we had
gone about three hundred miles out of our way. About eleven o'clock
we drew out of Harrisburg, taps were sounded through the trains and
all lights were extinguished. We found that the only way of taking
a comfortable sleep was as follows: The back of one seat was swung
upright and held in position by our rifles placed under one end; we
then took out each seat and placed them crosswise; the lower ends would
be under the upright backs. This gave us room to stretch ourselves at
full length, and by putting our blankets under our heads for a pillow
we managed to sleep fairly well. We arrived in Washington during the
early hours of the morning and were awakened by the train starting
out again at daylight. We caught a glimpse of the monument and the dome
of the Capitol as we were rushed across the Potomac. In Alexandria,
the town made famous in 1861 by the tragic death of Colonel Ellsworth,
the white people were still sleeping and only stray negroes were out
to see us pass. We skirted the Potomac for some miles, when we turned
westward and southward. At Widewater we stopped for water and I plucked
two daisies from Virginia soil and sent them home in a letter. This
section of country which we traversed was as desolate and uncultivated
a region as I ever want to see. It was totally unexpected and wholly
disappointing. Vast fields in Virginia appeared as if the growing of
grass was a hardship. Here and there a negro's log cabin, with its ten
by ten garden of dwarf corn, with perhaps a bed of peanuts or sweet
potatoes, reminded us that we had not left civilization entirely.

[Illustration: "NEGRO LOG CABIN, WITH ITS TEN BY TEN GARDEN PATCH OF
CORN AND PEANUTS."]

As we rode swiftly towards the South a great disappointment was felt
that we were not to go through the cities of Virginia--Fredericksburg,
Petersburg and Richmond, historical places that we were peculiarly
anxious to see. These were skirted or passed some distance away, but
we caught a glimpse of the spires of Richmond and it set us all agog.
We passed into North Carolina and soon entered Weldon, the scene of
several cavalry engagements. After leaving this city we passed through
miles of desolate country, over which once waved the tall and stately
pines, but now only the blackened stumps greeted us. Occasionally a
small forest was passed, which looked amid the general destruction as
if it had been forgotten by the axeman.

These small forests, which had been used only for tapping for
turpentine and resin, contained trees sixty or seventy feet high,
straight as an arrow, with the lowest branches twenty feet from the
ground. These trees were about the only interesting features of this
whole region of piney atmosphere. Occasionally we caught a glimpse of
some far away range of mountains, but the view was quickly lost. At
Henderson we stopped for water and our ice coolers were refilled. The
water was gotten to the coolers through the top of the car by means of
hose from a hydrant at the station. This refilling was done hurriedly
and they were not very particular as to the direction in which the hose
pointed, hence quite a few sorry looking soldiers.

As we were slowly crossing over one of the many muddy streams of North
Carolina a workman called out to us: "Be you un's come all the way from
New Jersey?" "Yes." "And be you un's all goin' to Cuba?" "Yes." "Well
you un's had better all go right back, for its hotter 'n hell-fire down
there." A peculiar thing I noticed was the absence of all enthusiasm
among the groups of people we occasionally met in the wilderness
through which we passed. Most of these were negroes, but in nearly
every group of black-faced humanity could be seen the fair face of the
white girl, "Missus's little lamb," who took the household with her to
see the Yankee soldiers, whose fathers years before had tramped through
that very region, leaving burning forests and even cities in their
wake. We entered Raleigh and passed the encampment where the State
militia had mobilized. Soon after leaving Hamlet darkness descended,
taps were sounded and we prepared for our second night's repose.

We woke next morning as the train was crossing the Savannah river
and immediately afterward entered Augusta, Ga., just as the cocks
were crowing, having passed through South Carolina during the night.
Here we enjoyed the luxury of a good wash and we needed it badly. The
only water obtainable on the cars was in the water coolers and they
had been empty a long while. Augusta gave us quite a welcome. It had
been steadily getting warmer and warmer, until now as we pulled out
of Augusta at about 8 a.m. the thermometer in the car marked 87°; at
noon it was 95°, where it remained until far into the afternoon. Upon
leaving Augusta we noticed for the first time the unmistakable signs
of the tropics, great ferns, seven and eight feet high, which had rank
growth in the swamps lining our route. Here and there scrub palmettos
reared their graceful branches like giant hands bestowing a blessing
upon the smaller growth beneath, and farther south loomed the shaggy
headed cabbage palmetto, the sight of which recalled the brave fight
at Fort Moultrie off Charleston in 1776, which fort was built almost
entirely of palmetto logs, the principal advantage being the fact that
they did not splinter when struck. We passed vast swampy areas of
tangled scrub, out of which we could almost expect to see alligators
show their bony snouts.

[Illustration]

We stopped at Millen near noon to take our coffee. This town was burned
when Sherman's troops marched through on their way to Augusta. It was a
sleepy sort of a town. No one seemed to have any business to attend to.
The stores were one story affairs, and upon entering we would select
whatever we wanted and drop the nickel in the hand of the proprietor,
who was seated at the door. The only busy place was the post-office,
which did a thriving business during the hour we halted there. About 2
p.m. we drew into the car sheds at Savannah only long enough to have
the cars inspected. Here the boys were again besieged for buttons and
souvenirs.

All through Georgia were large numbers of hogs, "razor backs," the boys
called them, probably of the same variety as Sherman's "bummers" had
such fun over. They were very lean, had long legs and long snout, with
a decidedly "bad" eye. At one of the stops for water a family was spied
peacefully rooting among the pines, but the furious charge made upon
them by the fun-loving boys soon scattered all but the sow; she defied
them, and they let her alone, but the little fellows could run like
rabbits. Three or four of our boys would corner a little black porker
and suddenly drop on him, but somehow he was never under the pile when
it landed. One, however, was caught and brought squealing into the
cars, but was afterward dropped some distance farther on.

We now sped due south, reaching Waycross late in the afternoon. Beyond
its being a railroad center it was uninteresting. The forests now
presented a truly tropical appearance with festoons of moss hanging
from the branches of the palmettos; with ferns here and there. Against
the dense green of the leaves stood in lovely contrast perfect showers
of beautiful pink blossoms which covered large trees. We were now
nearing Florida, the land of flowers, luscious fruit, ancient buildings
and brilliant fountains of perpetual youth, but now the mecca of
thousands of Uncle Sam's soldiers. It was growing dark as we crossed
the line into the most southern State. We arrived at Jacksonville
station about 10 o'clock. Taps were sounded, lights put out and we
slept soundly.




PART THIRD




CAMP CUBA LIBRE

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

The next morning we were caught napping sure enough--for during the
night the train had taken us out to the camp--bugles were calling to
each other, seemingly right under our "bed-room" windows, and away off
in the distance, the echoes were replying "Can't get 'em up; can't
get 'em up." Then our own buglers had their say, flinging back the
imputation that we were the only ones not up. Then the regimental band
took up the strain. It was a beautiful morning. The sun was just rising
and throwing slanting rays into the trees. All around us were the tents
of soldiers. Sentries with ominous looking cartridges in their belts
were wearily pacing their beats, but ever alert to the slightest move,
for we were now comparatively near to the seat of war. The band ceased
and sharp commands followed. In an incredibly short space of time the
companies nearest us were formed, every coat buttoned, every legging
laced, and the sergeant rapidly calling the roll. We had confidently
believed that we could give points in military efficiency to any
regiment we might come in contact with, but we inwardly confessed right
there and then that this regiment on our left could give us points on
getting out for roll call, and not during all our stay in the army did
we ever succeed in getting anywhere near the example set for us that
morning.

While waiting for the order to proceed to camp we were regaled with
marvelous tales of alligators, rattlesnakes, spiders and poisonous
creeping and flying things of all kinds. We participated in the killing
of a snake under the cars and had a great chase after an immense
spider, which "wasn't near" as "big" as "some," they said, so we
imagined they must have resembled crabs. They had an alligator about
four feet long, which they had caught not 100 feet away in a stream.

About noon we disembarked and with our invincible drum corps leading,
we marched through camp to the site selected for us. This march will
never be forgotten, and it was dubbed "the dust march." Fortunately for
us it was only for about half a mile, but we inhaled more dust then
than we will for the rest of our lives. Indeed, our company got the
full benefit of it, for we were the left or rear company. Wisconsin
and Illinois cheered us. Virginia and North Carolina yelled at us, and
altogether we got a pretty good welcome. Wisconsin took the trouble to
visit us the next day to tell us how glad they were to see us come into
camp, and we took to these hearty Milwaukee lads like a duck to water.
Sunday morning broke bright and clear and we were immediately in the
throes of "house" moving. All the lines of street had to be adjusted,
and it was late in the afternoon before we were finally settled and
could begin "house keeping" in good earnest. All our food so far had
been "travel rations," and the nice things we had brought began to
spoil. It was two days before the commissary could get our rations to
camp, their arrival relieved us greatly.

We were now camped on the left of the regiment, or northeast, getting
the full benefit of the breeze which at noon was sure to come and stay
until after dark. The evenings were fine. Such in the north in the hot
months are rare. The thermometer in the daytime registered 85° to 95°,
while in the evening it marks only 60°; no mosquitoes. The flaps of
tents were generally left open, but ours we closed because near morning
a heavy dew falls and saturates everything exposed and we did not think
it wise to leave them open.

The odor of pines was in the air constantly, and when we went into the
fields for drill a weed, when trampled on, emitted a perfume not unlike
locust blossoms. The fields also were full of the scrub palmettos about
two or three feet high. They were similar to the palm branches so
familiar on Palm Sunday. Another peculiar character in plant life here
was the moss which hangs in shroud-like gracefulness from all kinds
of trees. This moss looks very like curly sea-weed when dry and hangs
in festoons several feet long from the limbs and branches. This moss
some of the Wisconsin boys spread in their tents to sleep upon and it
evidently made comfortable beds.

Sunday I strolled into Jacksonville and watched the soldiers crabbing
from the piers. These crabs they told me were not fit to eat on account
of so much decayed vegetable matter in the St. Johns river, upon which
they feed. A striking feature of the river is the denseness with which
in places it is covered with hyacinths, which at times clog the wheels
of ferry-boats so as to stop navigation. These plants were introduced
here some time back for the purpose of beautifying the banks, having
handsome spikes of bloom. They grow very large. The leaf is much larger
than a pond-lily, and is frequently the home of a poisonous spider.
Tradition tells us that these spiders are to eventually destroy the
plants. I visited St. Johns Episcopal church and was received by the
Secretary of the Woman's Auxiliary, who kindly showed me around. On a
subsequent visit I met the Rector and enjoyed a chat with him on the
porch of the rectory. He told me that fourteen young men of his church
had left for the war. Some of them were from the choir, and I was
invited to take part with the choir in the services during our stay.

Our company had been designated as the Provost Guard, Second Division,
Seventh Army Corps, with Captain Ely as Provost Marshal. What honor
there was in it came from the fact that we were the body guard of
General Lee, and received orders from him only. We became a distinct
body, with the Provost Marshal's headquarters in Jacksonville, near the
General's headquarters. No State pay had come yet and everybody was
"dead broke." The extra blue shirts the boys bought on going to Sea
Girt they were now selling to the Illinois boys to obtain a few cents
to spend.

A canteen had been established which dispensed liquors and soft drinks
only. The men might go to the first sergeant and procure trading orders
on the canteen to the amount of two dollars. This amount was often
cut down to one dollar or less by the Captain, who used his judgment
in the matter. The men would laugh with childish glee upon obtaining
these orders and invite their friends to "come and have something,"
wondering how they had survived so long without it. The amount was soon
used up. The Y.M.C.A. had established a large tent just back of our
company and provided for the use of the regiment a stock of magazines
and periodicals. Also ice-water which was kept in barrels sunk in the
ground. Strange to say, the hospitality of the association was often
abused, but as a rule the boys generally appreciated their kindness.
This tent was supposed to follow the regiment to Cuba or wherever it
went. The soil being of a light sandy loam and mixed profusely with
soot from fires in the pine woods, rose easily with the breeze, which
sprang up about noon every day and gave us a liberal sprinkling of this
dusty compound. To keep the interior of our tent clean, we procured the
tufts of needles which grow thickly on the top of young pines like a
plume as they permitted the dust to sift through them, and when dried
made a couch which was soft and springy. It took about one to one and
a half hours to collect enough needles for one man, and for that reason
the idea was not generally adopted. "Too much trouble."

[Illustration]

The guard duty our company performed was such that we became more or
less a target at which uncomplimentary remarks were hurled by men of
other regiments, and it was only because it was in the line of duty
that it was done so cheerfully. During the week the regiment was paid
by the Government for the month of May, and the city of Jacksonville
was painted a Jersey color from end to end. The other regiments were
paid also, but they were not in it with Jersey. Lieutenant Brunner
reported that he had sent home for the boys amounts aggregating
three hundred dollars. Considerable industry finally erected a "real
bath-house," which contained two sprays and lots of pans for washing
purposes. It is needless to say that this house was the most popular
in camp. The camp was laid out in squares, and the dividing streets of
regiments were provided with stand pipes and troughs, both of which
were used from daylight until midnight. It was especially refreshing
to take a dip after marching until midnight and then creeping between
the blankets, sleep soundly until morning. This water was supplied by
the Jacksonville Water Co., which had four Artesian wells sunk back in
the country and piped to the pumping station in Jacksonville, whence
it was distributed around. One of these wells was nearly one thousand
feet deep. The water never ceased to flow, and was always bright and
sparkling, although rather warm, with a decided taste of sulphur,
which from some wells was positively disagreeable. This water was also
used for fire purposes and, besides its use by the city, supplied ten
thousand soldiers and several corrals of horses and mules for washing
and bathing purposes. The pumping station was guarded night and day,
for suspicious persons had been seen near it. It would have been
dangerous to go too near it after dark. Everything we ate and drank was
carefully guarded.

All the boys were enjoying their stay there immensely. We were getting
better food from the Government than we got at Sea Girt, nor must I
forget to mention that the people of Jacksonville always welcomed us,
and lots of things found their way into our tents. To the Jacksonville
people there was nothing just like the Jerseymen. We were treated with
great kindness. One lady, who said she used to live in New Jersey, sent
us a large can filled with stew, which we accepted with thanks, and it
was excellent, but that very noon we had stew at camp and we were dosed
with stews morning, noon and night. We decided to decline the next
donation.

[Illustration]

We had been away from home just one month and a half and in that
time--although not seeing any actual field service--we believed we had
become pretty thoroughly seasoned in camp life. One month of steady
downpour and half a month of blazing tropical sun was enough to do the
trick. We were housed in as comfortable quarters as possible under
the circumstances. The climate here made us so sleepy and lazy that
at all hours, between eight in the morning and five in the afternoon,
the tents contained sleeping men, and they slept so soundly that
often they would wake to find some joker had been smearing their
faces with soot and grease. Nights in Jacksonville, however, brought
that musical pest we all knew so well, the mosquito. He abounds along
the St. Johns river, and seemed to enjoy good health and strength,
judging from the looks of our boys, who were trying to sleep in provost
headquarters while off guard during the night.

[Illustration: CAMP OF THE SECOND NEW JERSEY REGIMENT JACKSONVILLE,
FLA., 1898.]

We were doing all night work now, relieved by Companies K, Forty-ninth
Iowa, and I, First Wisconsin. This was found necessary after pay-day.
This same day brought a rise in the price of souvenirs, live alligators
and everything the soldier would be likely to buy to send home. What
money the soldier received, if not sent home immediately, was generally
left in saloons, and the storekeepers were merely making a bid for it,
for it must go somewhere and right away too.

[Illustration]

We had two squads doing duty in the camps of the division to see that
regulations were lived up to. Our instructions were, "keep your eyes
open, mouth closed." "Watch strangers in camp (no civilians were
allowed unless with official escort), watch the policing of streets
and the care of kitchens and sinks." "Don't criticise, but report
observations on return," and the final injunction from Lieutenant
Brunner, "Don't be fresh." The guard had no friends, for we arrested
everybody found on the streets after taps. We had no drills, and up to
this time enjoyed excellent health, no one from the company being sick.
We took daily walks around the country and into Jacksonville while off
duty. Our regiment paraded through Jacksonville on a Saturday afternoon
and drew much favorable comment. We were reviewed by Generals Lee and
Burt, the latter being our brigade commander. After we had passed
the reviewing stand General Lee mounted his magnificent gray horse
"Cuba," and rode at the head of the regiment back to camp. The people
of Jacksonville said that the New Jersey regiment was the finest seen
there, and Lee made the remark that he wished only one regiment like
the Second New Jersey to show the Spaniards what an organized body of
troops should be. His marching at our head was a mark of esteem in
which he held us. This week we received our pay from the government
to June 15th, and the boys were correspondingly happy. We were now
kept so constantly on the jump that we hardly had the time to write
to anybody. The box sent by the good people of Rutherford arrived on
Sunday, but for lack of transportation it did not get into camp until
Wednesday. All the perishable stuff, like cake, etc., was unfit to eat,
but what was hailed with joy by the boys was canned vegetables and
fruit. We had been getting greasy meat for a couple of weeks and had
no money to buy anything else, and this in a hot climate. One box was
marked Dick Rusk and Ben Cohen. This was for our tent, and for some
time after we were enabled to "decorate the cloth" in great style with
canned corn, mustard pickles, pickled onions, baked beans, chow-chow,
condensed milk and tomato soup. One morning, being off duty, Corporals
Cohen, Rusk and myself strolled into town. A gentleman hailed us from
his porch and proceeded to show us his garden. This garden would fill
any northerner with envy. He had orange trees, seven of them, all
with oranges a shade darker than the beautiful green of the leaves.
A beautiful tree of the fern family, having large branches of bright
yellow flowers. These he said grew wild in Mexico. Enormous hydrangeas,
hibiscus, the flowers of which were as large as an Easter lily, but a
beautiful pink, with a maroon throat. Eight blooms were on this plant.
The season of roses had ended, but he had some very handsome Marshal
Neils, whose tree covered a large arbor. He had sent that morning to
General Lee a large basket of red, white and blue flowers. He also
showed us an Acacia tree which had delicate pink flowers the same
time it had long brown pods of seed. We had some trouble in leaving
this interesting gentleman. Baseball and athletic sports became
quite popular at this time, and received the official endorsement of
our higher officers. General Burt was often seen on the grand stand
"rooting" for the team from his brigade. But the games were mostly
between Wisconsin, Illinois, New Jersey and Iowa. The Wisconsin boys
gained the championship, but they had to work hard for it. The Jersey
boys excelled in the athletic sports and won nearly every event in the
set of games. The General was quite a strict disciplinarian, but one
day he became quite enthusiastic over a game of ball and was invited to
take part. When he took off his coat he explained that he was no longer
an officer, but just "one of the boys." The boys took this explanation
literally, and during the game the General was a fair mark for all
sorts of baseball slang and "jolly."

[Illustration]

June 28th brought a very happy conclusion to our guard duty in
Jacksonville, from which we were relieved by a company from the First
North Carolina regiment. The company had been worked hard, and it was
beginning to tell on us. Sergeant Collins at noon brought in the last
detail, and as they marched proudly up the length of the company street
they were applauded heartily. We could now take our old place at the
left of the regiment and have the pleasure of serving under Lieutenant
Blake in the field drills. There was no reason now why we should
not become the record company of the regiment. The Wisconsin boys
paid the regiment a visit one night. They were dressed only in their
under garments, with their poncho's over their shoulders, and they
had an elegant time. Our boys returned the visit the next night, in
the same stylish undress, with the addition of a red blanket, instead
of a poncho, leaving one arm bare to the shoulder. We then stuck our
haversacks on our heads, with the flap trailing behind. The ridiculous
get up was so taking that nearly half the regiment turned out, and
headed by the drum corps, we marched past the Second Illinois camp and
through the camps of the Second and Fourth Virginia, Second Wisconsin
and Forty-ninth Iowa, in all of which officers and men turned out and
cheered us. The comment of "Jersey, you're all right," seemed to fit
the case exactly. All the mascots, big and little, turned out with us,
even the red, white and blue rooster.

Arriving back in camp, the Colonel was called out and in a neat speech
he complimented the men on their orderly behavior, wished us to have
all the fun we could get, but warned us to keep within the bounds of
military discipline. The efforts we had put forth to make ourselves
ridiculous had covered us with perspiration and a thick layer of dust
clung to everything that was exposed, so that we were a sight to make
the iron faced gods laugh. The bathhouses were soon crowded, and far
into the night shirtless human spectres were flitting through the
streets.

We had a turn at drill the next morning and it was particularly severe.
Hot! My, in the morning it seemed to blister, and we were soaked with
perspiration, for we had regimental battle exercises; but as soon as we
returned we stripped, got a bath and felt better. I remember distinctly
that morning after the bath of sitting down in only my trousers and
socks and writing a long letter to the folks at home.

In our night patrols of the city we came across some very nice people
who took pains to get our names, and would ask for us if we did not
appear on guard the next night. Upon their invitation I visited a
family by the name of Rich, and while there two other of our boys
came along, whereupon the table was spread and we had a nice afternoon
lunch. Next day they sent us a big chocolate layer cake.

The champion watermelon eater of the company was universally conceded
to be Private Isaac Wilson, and a meal seldom passed but Ike was seen
up to his ears in melon. This fruit cost from 20 cents to nothing,
according to the distance from camp. One depot commissary guard of
eight men had six melons to eat. Ike was there and they disappeared
very quickly. Every time the reliefs awoke during the night watermelon
stared them in the face.

As we were upon the eve of very serious operations in Cuba, the
authorities deemed it expedient to have the Articles of War read to the
soldiers. There are 127, and we received them upon the installment plan
at roll call in the morning and evening. Lieutenant Brunner read these
so well that it was rumored he intended to lecture after the war was
over on what not to do in war times.

A number of excellent entertainments were given in the Y.M.C.A. tent.
The Second Illinois band gave a concert one evening, and on another
occasion Sergeant Gift and Private Gillen sang solos, while Private
F.M. Stevens played enjoyable selections upon the piano; at the close
of which a premature announcement by the chaplain of the fall of
Santiago was made, and an enthusiastic scene took place, while the
cheering was taken up all over camp. The boys had been following events
closely and all were eager for action. We felt keenly the hardships our
comrades were enduring and wished to share them. We were at this time,
perhaps, in better condition for an active campaign than at any time of
our stay in the south, being fully equipped, in excellent spirits and
good health.




PART FOURTH




PLEASURES OF THE CAMP.

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

For July 4th an elaborate program had been prepared, but owing to a
considerable downpour of rain it was postponed to the next day. The
celebration probably surpassed anything of its kind Jacksonville ever
saw, and its features are not likely to be seen again. These were:
9 a.m., music and the reading of the Declaration of Independence,
with speeches; 12 m., salute of 48 guns; 4.30 p.m., parade of all
the troops in camp, numbering 12,000; but most interesting was the
train of 189 pack mules connected with the regiment of Rough Riders
commanded by Colonel Torrey. It was in genuine Rocky Mountain style,
and created considerable interest. The Second Mississippi regiment of
infantry turned out only half equipped, and the transition periods from
a citizen to a trained soldier were seen to advantage. Our regiment
paraded in good shape, with L Company in its honorable position at the
left of the regiment. Owing to another downpour of rain the line of
march was shortened, and after being reviewed we marched back to camp,
drenched to the skin. The men all had changes of underclothing and no
bad effects resulted, but the street next morning resembled the rear of
a tenement in New York on wash day.

Sunday evening, July 8th, a detachment from each company of our
regiment was assembled to attend service in the First Presbyterian
Church of Jacksonville, and about 300 men, headed by the First
Wisconsin band, left camp at 7 p.m. After the capture of the city by
the Federal troops during the Civil War, this church was used by them
as a hospital and the building has not been altered in any particular
since then. The band led in the singing. It probably would have been
pleasant out of doors, but in a boxlike structure of truly southern
style, with the bass drum, snare drums and cymbals banging out "Nearer,
My God, to Thee," it became a very trying experience indeed.

The flowers of Florida seemed to be rather a myth, very few being
seen, but those of us who had friends at home who loved flowers were
able to find some choice specimens. The handsomest wild flower I
saw was the Hibiscus. It grew about five feet high in dense swampy
thickets, usually at the edge of creeks. Its blossoms measured fully
ten inches in diameter. Its great wide throat was crimson. Yellow
sepals and four pink petals blotched with black completed this
beautiful flower. They grow in profusion, and against a background of
green leaves make a very showy appearance.

During our journey south I noticed large clumps of yellow
Jack-in-the-Pulpits which were twice the size of our Jersey plants.
The season of flowers in Florida is the months of February, March and
April. Then the roses are in bloom. Marshal Neils grow in almost every
garden in Jacksonville, some climbing to the tops of the houses, and
upon the roof, late blossoms of tea roses were still to be seen. The
Passion flower is very common, the climate favoring this aptly named
blue and white legendary flower of the Crucifixion. Seeds of other
flowers blown from gardens take root in the streets and empty lots,
and among them the starry-eyed phlox lifts up its pleasant little
face. Camellias also were very common, lading the air near them with
rich perfume. Cannas reached perfection without any cultivation, short
plants but immense flaming blossoms; others were yellow, blotched with
red. The collecting of these flowers was a positive pleasure, even in
the hot sun.

[Illustration]

July 9th our regiment was swelled to its full complement by the
addition of 330 recruits from Sea Girt, and a finer lot of young men
did not come to camp for any regiment. More than this, the State had
done for the Nation what no other had, equipped every man ready to
go to the front. Time and again recruits would come from Illinois,
Wisconsin, Iowa, Virginia and North Carolina dressed just as they
appeared at home. As our boys marched through Jacksonville escorted by
detachments from each company, they received considerable applause.
They carried aloft the banner "New Jersey Recruits! This is the
material that New Jersey sends." We were all proud of our State. At the
camp their reception was cooled by a downpour of rain.

[Illustration]

Monday morning, July 11th, it commenced to rain and it rained in
torrents the rest of the day and all night. It flooded the tents, so
that boards and even boxes had to be brought into service to stand on.
The recruits, being quartered on lower ground, were practically drowned
out, so that they either had to stand in the rain or seek shelter in
tents already crowded to their limits. There was hardly a dry foot in
camp Tuesday night.

A large number of 1884-model Springfield rifles arrived at this time
and our regiment was supplied. Their newest feature was a ramrod
bayonet, the dangerous end being cast like a bit. By giving a twist to
the rifle after entering a body it would tear the flesh horribly. In
other respects it was the same rifle used in the National Guard for
years.

Thursday, July 14th, a telegram was received by Adjutant Hilton
announcing the fall of Santiago. The news was genuine this time, and
the occasion prompted an outburst of enthusiasm. Later on the good
feeling was increased by the welcome command of "Fall in for your pay."

The coloring and shapes which the clouds assumed in the early evening
were quite remarkable. One evening in particular, at about 6.30, a
scarlet and white streak stretched across the heavens from north to
south, and about five minutes afterwards a line of blue, which was as
straight as if cut out with a knife, came across the north end, running
east and west. The combination made a very striking similitude to an
American flag.

At the waterworks in Jacksonville there was a pond in which lived
an alligator of variously estimated lengths and age. One day while
I was idly watching the game fish which also inhabited the pool,
the keeper brought the saurian's noonday lunch in the shape of a
live chicken. Coaxing the ugly reptile to come nearer the wire fence
proved unavailing, so the chicken was thrown about one foot from his
snout. Like a flash the great mouth opened, there was a splash, a few
feathers, a couple of gulps, and the huge head was resting just the
same as before, never moving an eye. The slang expression of "you can't
lose me when grub is around" seemed to fit his case exactly.

A company fund was now established for the purpose of securing a
greater variety of food, building a mess-house, and to pay the cook
a few more dollars than the government provided. The assessment was
50 cents per month for each member. Arrangement was also made with a
colored woman to do the clothes washing of the company, which also
necessitated a payment of 50 cents a month per man. This was so cheap
that very few could not afford it, and the wash was quite large each
week. The intention of the company fund was to discourage the purchase
of pies, cakes, ice cream, etc., all too frequently indulged in. Some
of the "credits" obtained at these stores amounted to $3.00 or more,
which the soldier was supposed to liquidate on pay-day.

Now that the signs pointed to an early termination of the war, the
prospect of getting to Cuba grew less and less, and the boys commenced
to turn their thoughts on pleasure. A large number of cameras made
their appearance, and trips were taken for the purpose of getting
views of Florida life. These pictures were developed in Jacksonville
and usually sent home. Some excellent ones were obtained. Trips were
made to Pablo Beach, a bathing resort on the coast to the east, St.
Augustine, and up the St. Johns river, all of which were at reduced
rates.

To the above list of diversions must be added a wedding. The ceremony
took place in the Y.M.C.A. tent, and was between a member of the Second
Illinois Regiment and his sweetheart from Chicago. The bride was fair,
wore a white dress, with bouquets of orange blossoms at her belt
and in her hair. The groom wore, in addition to his uniform, a high
white collar that was the envy of all the boys and white kid gloves,
which must have been excruciating. They received a great ovation upon
leaving. Other marriages took place, some of which we did not hear of
until reaching home. Some of our boys were regular attendants at church
and sang in the choirs, being heartily welcomed by the good people
of Jacksonville.

[Illustration: COLOR GUARD, JACKSONVILLE, FLA.]

Early one Saturday morning Corporals Cohen, Rusk and myself decided
upon a trip to St. Augustine. Inspection of quarters was completed at
8.30 a.m. and we immediately proceeded to Jacksonville to take the
train south, there being no other duties during the day. The fare to
soldiers had been reduced one-half, or 50 cents, which fact enabled
large numbers of soldiers to take advantage of the trip. This day was
no exception, and the cars were crowded. We went to the front of the
train and there found an empty coach, save for two or three negroes.
We decided that we were extremely fortunate indeed. The rear was
partitioned off for baggage. The conductor happened through and asked
us if we could not find room in the rear cars. We were surprised, but
answered that we might have found room on the "roof." After he had
left it dawned upon us that this was a car portioned off for negroes,
as members of this race only came into it, so we very graciously asked
those in the car if they had any objections to our staying there. The
courtesy took them so much by surprise that they could only stare at us
for answer. So we took our seats again and prepared to enjoy ourselves.

[Illustration]

After a half hour's wait we were fairly started, only to stop every few
miles to sidetrack and allow other trains to pass. These waits became
so numerous that it was nearly noon before we reached St. Augustine and
were just one and one-half hours behind schedule.

All the way down the forests seemed fresher and the flowers grew more
thickly among the pines. The absence of charred, blackened areas was
also noticeable.

The city, seen from a distance, reminded one strongly of a city of
the Moors, for above the trees rose a bewildering labyrinth of towers
and minarets, which carried us back to the charming descriptions in
Irving's "Mahomet" and "Granada." We alighted at a very pretty and
airy station surrounded by large beds of flowers and tropical plants.
Among the many importuning jehus we selected one who took us free
to a restaurant. The ebony driver was very loquacious; laughed when
we laughed and interspersed gratis information which was highly
interesting. We jested at the boys along the streets not so fortunate
as we, and tried to cheer them up with the assurance that it was five
miles at least to the nearest "grub."

[Illustration]

The air was remarkably clear and bracing, and is so all the year
round. Every garden seemed a mass of color. Oleanders were everywhere,
filling the air with their spicy breath, drooping their great bowers
of blossoms over the sidewalks. Every home had its well-kept lawns
and shade trees, some with fountains playing enhanced the beauty of
the place. The Memorial Presbyterian Church is very handsome, and
contains one of the finest organs in the South. H.M. Flagler built
this church in 1890 in memory of his daughter, and it is supposed to
have cost $250,000. A little to the east is the Baptist church, built
a few years later, with its heavy impressive front and tall, square
tower, preserving the sedate architecture of this denomination, while
conforming to the general tendency to things Moorish. But here on our
right is one of the most magnificent hotels of the South, the Ponce
de Leon, which stands alone the most handsome and unique of its kind
in the United States. Built upon the style of the Moorish palaces of
the fifteenth century, its architecture is at once voluptuous and
elegant,--towers and minarets shooting up here and there. Its massive
iron gates and chains with spiked balls, heavy oaken doors, courts,
balconies, and marbled walks, are richly carved in Moorish figures. The
gardens surrounding it are only such as a tropical climate can produce.
Stately palmettos and palms shoot up their feathery tops above graceful
bananas lazily waving their plumes in the fresh sea breeze; huge masses
of oleanders, which here seem to reach their perfection, bending
beneath the weight of their blossoms, formed arches of exquisite
beauty across the walks; century plants, orange trees with leaves of
the softest green imaginable while underneath were clusters of fruit
of a still darker color, reminders of a golden harvest. Hydrangeas of
enormous size, the leaves of which were entirely hidden by the great
tresses of pink and blue flowers,--were scattered profusely in all
directions. Roses seemed to grow everywhere, climbing over fences, into
trees, up the sides of buildings--handsome ones that are strangers to
northerners who have slim purses; and right in the midst of all this
beauty of color were playing fountains sending sprays of silver ten and
fifteen feet high. It is a veritable Garden of Eden. Henry M. Flagler
is the controlling spirit in this beautiful palace, as he is in the
other hotels, the massive Cordova and beautiful Alcazar, with their
lovely gardens and fountains. Mr. Flagler's influence extends over the
greater part of the east coast in hotels and railroads of this famous
wintering State.

The older part of the town lies along the water front, just as the
Spaniards had planned the city. On our left was an old building
formerly used as a barracks, but now devoted to the manufacture of
cigars and quite dilapidated. On the right stood a large square
building which many times resounded with the laughter and possible
braggadocio of the cavalier, for this was the residence of the
Governor-General of the Floridas. It is now used as the post-office.

Our interesting guide announced that before us was the Plaza, where the
landing of Menendez was celebrated September 7, 1565, amid the thunder
of artillery and the blasts of trumpets, with the banner of Castile and
Aragon unfurled. He immediately ordered the celebration of mass, while
his soldiers chanted the Te Deum. He named the place St. Augustine, for
he had sighted land on the feast day of that saint. The celebration of
mass in this old city has been kept up uninterruptedly for 333 years.
The old Cathedral with its four chimes (one of which has the date
1682) hanging from bars in niches of the steeple, give a truly Spanish
flavor to the surroundings. The present old building was built in 1793;
the original one having been destroyed by fire the previous year. A
monument in the center of the Plaza marks the commemoration of the
adoption of the Spanish constitution of 1812; also a monument of the
Florida soldiers of the civil war stands here. Across the street on the
right is Trinity Episcopal Church, consecrated in 1833 by Bishop Bowen
of South Carolina.

Our restaurant now appearing, our interest in the "most ancient city"
suddenly lapsed over the prospect of a good dinner. We had a chance to
wash and then partook of a fine repast, the like of which we had not
seen since leaving home. Fine bread, green corn, roast lamb and golden
butter, and to crown all, a heaping saucer of ice cream, and all for 25
cents.

In the Plaza before mentioned stands a shed, covering a platform
upon which for over 200 years slaves were bought and sold, and many
a heart-rending scene took place there. The powder magazines of the
Spanish were pointed out to us; now a barracks for a battery of
artillery; also the oldest house in the United States, and now so
improved (?) that hardly any of the quaint architecture is apparent. It
is at present owned by a Dr. Carver.

Two monuments on St. Francis street commemorate the Dade massacre
in December, 1835; Major Dade, Captain Frazer and one hundred men,
after a desperate resistance, were mercilessly slaughtered by the
Seminoles under Micanopy, an Indian who, tradition says, "could eat
a calf at one sitting, and then coil up like a snake" to digest the
repast. Osceola, chief of the Seminoles, slew General Thompson, the
Indian Agent, and then waged a ruthless war which ended only after the
Okeechobee battle had been fought and the celebrated chief captured. We
were now going through streets lined with fine residences and gardens.
Some of the banana trees were in blossom while others had small green
bunches hanging from the topmost boughs. Oranges were abundant. Date
palms waved their feathery crests at us, but above all were the beauty
and fragrance of the oleanders.

[Illustration]

Now we came in sight of what everybody comes here to see, the old
Fort. Almost before we were aware of it we were at the celebrated
gates, which are built of stone and formed part of the line of defence
projected at the time the Fort was built. There are niches or sentry
boxes in each gate, where undoubtedly the sentries found shelter from
the weather. We tramped up the hill to the Fort and were struck at
once by the peculiar substance with which it is built. On Anastasia
Island across the bay are quarries from which this substance "Coquina"
or shell rock is dug. Double walls were built of stone and broken
stone and Coquina were rammed down between them. This wall being of
such peculiar composition would impact the shot, and would prevent it
from splintering or cracking. We entered over the drawbridge and were
confronted by the arms of Castile and Aragon over the portcullis. Here
was legitimate Spanish prey. Why not capture it? But the eye of the
Ordnance Sergeant is upon us. The pulley and beams which raised and
held the drawbridge across the moat are still in the walls. We are now
in the court or assembly place. On the right are two guard rooms and
a dungeon. In this dungeon Osceola was confined and niches cut in the
wall by him for the purpose of looking out on the court are shown.
The next door contains an old Spanish lock of considerable size. The
iron framework of the door is still intact, but has been filled in
with new wood. The next room is the chapel and a niche for the patron
saint Augustine. Here mass was said and marriages performed. A part
of the timbers supporting the choir loft is still there. In the next
room holes in the wall indicate where crosses, thumb-screws and other
instruments of fiendish torture of the inquisition were placed. Rings
to which chains were attached are still in the walls. A torch was now
lighted and we entered from the last room into one of utter darkness,
save a window for ventilation eighteen feet from the ground. It was
from this room that the two Seminole chiefs, Wildcat and Hadjo escaped
through that very window, the bars of which were scarce twelve inches
apart, and made a leap of thirty feet to the ground on the outside.
The guide called to us to follow, and led us through an aperture six
feet high and two and a half feet wide. This room is five feet by
twenty and fifteen feet high. We take this size from our guide, for
we can see nothing. Then he bade us stoop low and follow closely. We
were beginning to have a creepy feeling about the roots of our hair,
and this increased after emerging from an entrance four and a half by
three feet wide. The air is oppressive and the sepulchral tones of the
guide announces that this room was not known to exist until it had been
in possession of the United States for fourteen years. It is twenty
feet long, thirteen feet wide and seven feet high. With the entrance
closed, death would occur in about fifteen minutes. In the outer room
through which we stumbled, tradition says two skeletons, male and
female, were found hanging in cages nailed to the wall. The incredulous
are shown the nail holes. These dungeons were used probably to a
considerable extent during the inquisition. At each of the four corners
of the fort is a watch tower, named respectively St. Peter, St. Paul,
St. Charles and St. Augustine, into each of which curiosity led us.

[Illustration]

The broad terreplein furnishes one of the finest promenades imaginable,
the ocean being plainly visible over Anastasia Island, while the
freshest of sea breezes neutralize the intense heat of the sun.
One hundred and ninety-one years is the record of labor on this
fortification. For sixty years the Appalachian Indians were compelled
to work upon it and to their efforts are probably due the immense labor
of construction.

We had now "done" the Ancient City pretty thoroughly, so we again took
our carriage, obtained another square meal and boarded the train,
arriving in camp as taps were sounding. The Spaniards were fond of
bombast and high-sounding phrases. Here is a proclamation issued by the
Governor upon landing in St. Augustine:

"I, Panfilo de Narvaez, cause to be known to you how God created the
world and charged St. Peter to be the Sovereign of all men in whatever
country they might be born. God gave him the whole world for his
inheritance. One of his successors made it a gift to the King and Queen
of Spain so that the Indians are their subjects. You will be compelled
to accept Christianity. If you refuse and delay agreeing to what I
have proposed to you, I will march against you. I will subject you to
obedience to the Church and his Majesty. I will obtain possession of
your wives and children. I will reduce you to slavery, and the blood
be upon your own head. Amen."

When Menendez landed, he took possession of the whole Western
Hemisphere in the name of the King of Spain, and this present year has
seen the grand finale of the act begun with great pomp in 1565.

One Sunday afternoon in the Y.M.C.A. tent General O.O. Howard made an
address to the boys which was brimming with patriotism and recited a
pathetic anecdote of a young lieutenant of artillery who at Gettysburg
was wounded and bled to death. I was very proud to grasp the left hand
of the old hero whose eyes had flashed fire in a dozen fierce and
bloody battles of the civil war.

In due course of events the mess-house became a reality. It was 48 by
18, roofed over, the sides being open. It contained two long tables and
seated about one hundred. Here the boys would congregate. The incoming
mail was distributed here, and the assorting of the laundry also.

Brigade drills in battle formation took place now quite frequently.
This formation consists of sending out scouts, flankers, firing line,
supports and reserves. At 7.30 a.m. the companies were formed into
battalions, the battalions into regiments, and the regiments into
brigade while they marched towards the field. Our brigade (the First)
consisted of the First North Carolina, Second New Jersey and Second
Illinois. As we passed out of our camp we met the First North Carolina,
which preceded us, and the Second Illinois followed as we passed their
camp. Route step had been ordered, for it was hot and the order from
General Burt was to make it as little burdensome as possible. It was a
very picturesque march. The men rolled up their sleeves, loosened their
gunslings, and thrust their arms between them and the barrels with the
butts up, barrel pointing down across the thigh. Others carried their
rifles reversed to the above, then again laid them across the top of
both shoulders.

[Illustration]

Imagine the picture those three thousand men made winding in columns
over bridges, through defiles, over fields, and through pine groves.
Here we see the head of the column going up that hill with General
Burt and staff leading. The General is a small man, has a light grey
moustache and keen eyes. He does not get excited,--always has a calm
expression. His staff are around him, all men of superior build but
inferior rank. Every once in a while one of these will receive an order
and instantly scurry away. Now come the men of the First North Carolina
in uniforms of dark navy; but suddenly our view is shut out, for we are
passing through an unused railroad cut and we see only a short distance
ahead of us.

[Illustration]

But see! There goes the first battalion of our own Second across that
high railroad bank, and then they disappear down its side. We look
sharp now, for we are going over a corduroy road over a stream. This
is made of tree trunks with their branches thrown between to fill up
the angles. Then we go up a hill, and spread out before us in the
fine groves, are the North Carolinians in battle array along a wire
fence. The first and third battalions of our regiment move in behind
them and form on their left, being a continuation of the firing line.
Our battalion is the support of our regiment. Looking back, we see
the Illinois boys trudging over the ground we have just left. We are
getting thoroughly interested in the movements. The Second Illinois
marches past, taking up a position to the left of our firing line.
We now have two lines, firing line and supports. Then the positions
are changed. The Illinois boys are sent chasing towards the St. Johns
river, and their cheers can be heard. We advance our columns, and soon
come up with the men from the Windy City. The General has seen enough
and orders a rest. The bugle kindly sounds the retreat and we pass over
again the same ground that made our advance so picturesque.

In the course of the first of these drills we had to get across a small
stream by jumping on a board laid in the middle, and making another
leap for safety. This process delayed our line so that the order was
again given for double time to close up the gap. Double time under the
best of conditions is bad enough, but at 9 a.m. on that morning the
heat was fierce. We ran about one thousand yards and then felt as if a
downy bed at home would just about fill the bill. However, we got over
it all right and it has now become part of our stock of anecdotes.

A rifle range had been established about two miles from camp under the
able supervision of Lieutenant-Colonel Currie, assisted by Capt. Geo.
E. Wells and the men of G Company. The range was used by the regiments
composing the Seventh Army Corps, each one going to the range once in
every twenty-five days. It was in many respects similar to our State
range at Sea Girt; but instead of a background of sea and sky which did
not afford any relief to the eyes upon the long ranges, we had here
dense pine trees and a high hill behind the targets, which brought them
out very distinctly. These targets were in the shape of a man kneeling
and the same size as those used at Sea Girt. They revolved instead of
sliding up and down when struck. Corporal Rusk, Artificer Doerflinger,
and Private Val. Greuter of our company were employed for two weeks in
their construction.

[Illustration]

Thursday, July 26th, we were hustled out early, and each man received
five blank cartridges. We all knew what that meant, and our blood
tingled through our veins in great shape. We marched in company with
one battalion of the Second Illinois to the grounds in the near
vicinity of our range and immediately formed in battle array. We were
opposed by the First North Carolina and two battalions of the Second
Illinois. Scouts and flankers were sent out from our company, the
latter in charge of Sergeant Van Roden. Skirmishers under Sergeant
Dabinett then advanced. The balance of the company were ordered to
deploy and lie down. Soon shots were fired in front, then came shots
from the right, as the scouts met the enemy and were driven in. Heavy
volleys followed, and nearer and nearer they came. The trees and
undergrowth were so thick we could not see very far ahead. Finally a
volley was fired on our right center, then we saw Sergeant Dabinett
and his skirmishers running in, perspiration streaming down their
faces. Immediately the supports returned the fire and we were soon
enveloped in smoke. Lieutenant Brunner's command rang out, and we
deployed, extending the firing line,--all were now in action. Our boys
were remarkably steady in their volley firing. Additional flankers were
thrown out on our left and it was quite amusing to see the enemy's
heads duck when a dozen shots were fired at them from an unexpected
quarter. This finally brought forth a volley from the enemy, who had
been under cover, whereupon we fell back to the main body, while the
enemy advanced; but the recall was sounded and the "battle" was over.

July 31st Private Guy L. Fake was appointed Colonel Hine's orderly.
This was a position highly prized by the men, as the best appearing
private was selected to fill it from the guard detail of over fifty.

[Illustration]

A party of our boys went crabbing in the St. Johns river and brought
back 201 crabs. These were distributed and we had quite a feast.
Company F's men caught 225. The residents told us they were unfit to
eat, but we proved to them that they were.

We found in our travels very few fruits and vegetables where we had
expected to find an abundance. In the market in Jacksonville we could
see plenty of vegetables; but when we intimated to the dealers that
the potatoes, cabbages, onions and carrots looked about like they did
farther north, they laughed and said: "Well, I shouldn't wonder, for
they came from New Jersey and Pennsylvania." A great many of the small
fruits, such as blackberries, raspberries and strawberries, came from
Georgia. Peaches alone were plentiful. Persimmons were occasionally
seen. Tropical fruits, of course, were very abundant. The orange trees
in this section were killed by the great frost of 1895, but were
beginning to bear again. The tree was as common a sight as our pear and
apple trees. Watermelons were so plentiful that the market was glutted
with them, and 5 cents would buy as large a one as could be lifted. The
storekeepers cautioned us not to buy the small ripe ones. They having
been of slower growth, contained more of the impurities of the soil and
were consequently more liable to cause fevers. After August 1st the
sale of melons was prohibited.

The sweet potatoes were considerably darker than those grown farther
north and much sweeter. The colored people made very good pies out of
them, which they peddled in the camp. These pies were quite similar
to our pumpkin pies in appearance. With this scarcity of fruits and
vegetables it was no wonder that we jumped for joy when a box was
received from home which contained, among other things, a can of
preserved blackberries and three solid cucumbers, the seed of which
latter had been planted by the writer when home on furlough the day
before the regiment started south.




PART FIFTH




AUGUST 1898

ITS BRIGHT AND GLOOMY DAYS

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

On Tuesday evening, August 2d, the officers of the regiment gave a lawn
party in camp. A platform was built in front of Colonel Hine's tent,
and trees and shrubbery surrounded it in such a natural way that one
would have thought it had been placed in a grove. The affair was quite
successful and was graced by the presence of General Lee and staff,
with the Generals and Colonels of the different brigades and regiments
encamped here, besides notables from Jacksonville.

Thursday, August 4th, we had another sham battle, and this time we
were the attacking force, composed of our regiment and one battalion
of the First North Carolina. Opposed to us on the defensive were
two battalions of the First North Carolina and the Second Illinois
regiment. About one mile from camp our advance guard came upon the
enemy concealed in a ravine, along which they had deployed, and a
rapid exchange of shots took place. Company after company of our
regiment were deployed on the run to their skirmish lines. As each
company arrived it immediately engaged the enemy. Our company being
last in order of march, we had longer to run, and we were placed far on
the enemy's right. In fact, we succeeded completely in turning their
right flank back, so that their whole line was like a bent bow. Our
company pushed through and over fences and came upon the enemy lying
behind a fence at the rear of a house. Here the fire was the hottest,
and at one time our lines were within fifty feet of each other, but
just able to see through the bushes that lined the yard.

The boys nicknamed this "the back-yard skirmish." Reinforcements
arriving, we gradually extended our lines, so that the foe were having
a hot fire upon three sides at once. Expecting a general advance along
the lines at this time, we held our fire, as only ten blank cartridges
had been given us and we had used up nearly all of them. We lay on
the ground in the hot sun, perspiring from every pore, expecting every
minute to receive the word. Rapid firing was going on on our extreme
left and center and away off to the right the volleys were thundering.

[Illustration]

This was a sore temptation to the boys, who every once in a while
popped away wherever they saw a head emerge from the tall grass, and
it delighted them greatly to see the individual drop as he heard the
report, seemingly ashamed to find that the other fellow had the "drop"
on him. Sudden cheering from the center was the signal for our advance.
This time we only ran about ten yards and then dropped like a flash,
for the enemy was about to pour a volley into us. Just at this moment
the bugle sounded the "cease firing" and then the "assembly." When
the firing ceased we had our opponents nearly surrounded. One man was
hurt slightly with a bayonet. It was a great victory for the Second
New Jersey. Lieutenant Brunner, the only one of Company L's officers
present, had a hard time trying to keep his command under control,
and succeeded extremely well, deserving the highest praise, the
non-commissioned officers and men conforming to his commands promptly
and with energy.

Friday morning at company drill Lieutenant Brunner sent the first
platoon out through the woods and five minutes later the second to
find the first. The second, under Sergeant Van Roden, took a short cut
to intercept the first, which was under Sergeant Charles Dabinett,
and this was what happened: We (the second) took post behind a shed
in a deserted yard. I was stationed with four men along a fence from
which some of the boards were missing. Sergeant Collins, with Private
Craig and two others, went out and as the first platoon appeared these
four set up a great shouting, luring them on past our ambuscade. The
long legged men of the first were so intent upon coming up with the
second, represented by Sergeant Collins and three men, whose heads
only could be seen above the tall grass and bushes, that one section
under Corporal Cohen went fairly and squarely into the trap set for
them. But, unlike the rough riders, they could not get out again, for
my detail, getting in their rear and being reinforced by the rest of
the platoon, they were soon disarmed. The first section with Sergeant
Dabinett coming to their relief were also taken into camp.

Lessons of this sort were likely to be of great benefit to the boys,
especially as parts of our company were usually thrown out as flankers
for the regiment, and taught them to be on their guard continually.

[Illustration]

Towards the middle of August the climate began to tell on the boys.
During June the ground was very dry and the atmosphere was clear and
full of the odor of pines. In July the rains commenced, and hardly did
the torrent cease before the sun set everything steaming. Vapor at
night rose from the ground in greater quantities and it was not long
before the hospitals were taxed to their utmost. In a great many cases
home sickness would lead the way, while in others it was excesses. The
number became so great that details from each company were sent to the
hospital as assistants.

The sickness was also felt among the officers. During Captain Ely's
leave of absence Lieutenant Blake was taken down with malarial fever
and procured leave to go up the St. Johns to weather the malady. In
the midst of this season of sickness (although not the worst by far)
occurred the passing away of Private Jacob Kotzenberg of typhoid, the
first patriot of our command and the second in the regiment, just
upon the eve of dawning peace. He was buried with honors near his
home after befitting services, both at Jacksonville and Rutherford.
This death stirred our people greatly and set them all to thinking.
The peace preliminaries had been signed and our victorious armies and
navy enjoined from making further hostile advances. The return of the
soldiers was eagerly discussed, for it was felt that others in our
southern army might pass away at any time.

One week had hardly passed when two more of our comrades gave up their
lives. Dread typhoid hovered over the camp and only the most hardy
withstood its withering touch. These devoted lives were Private Henry
Newman of Paterson and Corporal Bennett Cohen of Rutherford. The latter
was my tent-mate and warm friend and I knew him best. At no other time
during our service had such a desolate feeling spread over our camp.
It rained frequently, the nights were gloomy and damp, and some of our
most popular boys had gone to the hospital.

Our folks at home were clamoring for our return. Horrible stories were
afloat there of our treatment. The unhealthfulness of the camp was such
and lately such terrific downpours of rain had flooded everything, that
camps on lower ground had become untenantable, so one morning when
we found that our neighbor, the Second Virginia, had packed up and
moved farther west, we felt that something must be done to break the
monotonous gloomy aspect. Our boys were sickening rapidly, and only a
few days before one of our most popular corporals had been taken from
the street a hopeless case. We knew it as we saw him depart and pitied
the poor fellow.

Soon after our arrival at camp orders had been issued prescribing a
method of drying the ground under the tents, which had been provided
with board floors. Strange to say, this order had been overlooked up
to the present time, when it was enforced, and during the day the
tents were shifted and the floors raised. Lime which was obtained at
the Commissary's was liberally sprinkled around. The deaths in our
Company proved that it was not the best thing in the world to sleep
near the ground, from which rose malarial vapors. Sergeants Clift,
Dabinett, Collins and Baxter, and Corporals Rusk and myself slept on
cots and in hammocks and we kept good health, while, on the other hand,
Corporals Cohen and Roe and Privates Kotzenberg and Newman had slept
on the ground. One evening my hammock broke and I lay on the floor the
rest of the night. The next morning I awoke with a decidedly heavy,
listless feeling and made haste to mend my hammock, for I attributed
that feeling to lying so near the earth. The camps all around had their
tent floors two and three feet off the ground, and in nearly all the
regiments which were under trees platforms were built in them on which
the boys slept.

[Illustration: PABLO BEACH, FLA.

"AND SOON NOT FORTY MEN OUT OF 101 ANSWERED THE ROLL."]

One morning, instead of a monotonous drill, the Company marched out
into the country past the camps of regiments which had departed. In the
Fourth Illinois camp the pools of water were knee deep and a bridge had
been built to connect two battalions. This Regiment suffered greatly.
It was under such conditions as these that the welcome order was
received directing our Company to proceed to Pablo Beach on provost
duty. This beach is one of the finest along the Atlantic coast and
extends for eighteen miles north and south. Parties frequently make the
trip to St. Augustine in carriages along its entire length. Bright and
early Friday, August 23d, baggage and knapsacks were loaded on army
wagons and eight o'clock found us moving towards Jacksonville to take
ferry and train to the seashore. The handsome uniform of our regiment
was always a subject of remark whenever we turned out for parade. This
consisted of buff campaign hats, dark blue blouse, light blue trousers,
with white stripes for the officers and non-coms, brown leggings, and
in beautiful contrast was our red blanket in a roll from the left
shoulder to the right hip. Our fancy friends of the Twenty-second and
Twenty-third New York Regiments could not beat that combination.

[Illustration]

Our spirits had been rising higher and higher and on the boat songs and
jests livened things up. A curious incident of this trip is the fact
that we crossed on the old ferryboat "Commodore Barney," built in 1857
for passenger service between New York and Brooklyn. It was transposed
during the civil war, so the story runs, into a mushroom gunboat and
stationed somewhere near Norfolk, Va. It was used also as a transport,
and five years ago it took the trip south. On our left, tied up to
wharves, were the filibusters "Three Friends" and "Dauntless," both of
which did about as much toward bringing on the war as anything else. On
the east side of the river were two wrecks, one a ferryboat, the other
a sloop, both of which have been laying there for years and apparently
in pretty good condition yet, typical of the want of energy to build up
and prosper in spite of obstacles so often seen in the far south.

We were loaded on lumber cars. The smoke from the engine nearly
suffocated us as we shifted in our seats to relieve ourselves from
the rocking and jolting we got from the uneven tracks and springless
cars. We covered the seventeen miles in about forty-five minutes. This
included stops to take on wood for the engine. This stopping for wood
must always be included in the time of traveling on the railroads of
the Black belt, and it never failed to bring forth bright comments
and jests from the boys, who found a great deal of amusement in it.
We arrived safe and sound. It was this trip, however, that completely
broke me down and I reported at the hospital soon after our arrival.

That night demons, snakes and alligators lurked in every corner.
Fortunately my efforts at dislodging them threw me into a drenching
perspiration, which broke up the high fever, after which I felt
better. I was off duty for five days and afterwards enjoyed our stay
at this place. The salt air brought out all the evil fevers which had
gotten into our systems at Jacksonville and soon not forty men out of
one hundred answered the roll. The duty was light, but we often found
it necessary at times to appeal to the other companies on duty with
us to help us out, so that some of our men should not go on duty two
days in succession. We were particularly short in our non-commissioned
officers. Out of six Sergeants and ten Corporals only Sergeant Baxter
and myself were available for a whole week, Corporal Rusk having charge
of the Quartermaster's Department, the rest being either sick or on
furlough. A great many of our friends have been in hospitals, but
have any of them seen the effects of typhoid after the most rigorous
measures have been taken? Over four hundred men were at a convalescent
hospital near the beach and they were in all stages of recovery. A
few did not get well. On the ground floor were men who had fought the
malady sufficiently to walk around and fold up their mattresses every
morning. The floor space these occupied was needed in the day time.
At every meal nourishing food was served and nearly two hundred young
men stood in line, some with camp stools to rest upon every few steps.
Oatmeal, rice and soups formed the principal diet, varied sometimes on
Sunday by something more solid. But it was the general appearance of
the poor fellows that sent a wave of sadness over me. "Who knows," said
I, "but I may be like one of these myself some day." These invalids
were improving, however. But upstairs, the more recent arrivals were
lying upon cots, helpless, gazing into space, their teeth showing
between bands of white skin once full red lips, a wasted arm thrust out
with the flesh between the bones shrunken. A terrible sight. The boys
who so bravely marched to war wanted now only to see the dear home once
more.

[Illustration]

The food issued to the company at this time was about the same as
it had always been, but once or twice a day we were sure of some
combination of the coarse food that would astonish and delight us,
thanks to the skill of a competent black cook, Bob by name, who had
seen considerable service on board tugs and other craft around the city
of Jacksonville, and also to the tireless persistent devotion to his
duty of our Quartermaster, who succeeded in obtaining oat meal, sugar,
raisins and other things not on Uncle Sam's bill of fare. Oat meal and
milk, which savored of our northern homes, was furnished to the sick of
the company.

After the first two weeks at this camp those who had been in the
hospital and those who had withstood the fever so far began to brighten
and to gain strength and they continued to do so until we started for
home, and also because of two conditions--our position at the seashore
and our well cooked food. The morning after our arrival we were struck
with consternation on hearing of Corporal George H. Roe's death at
Jacksonville. His was a serious case when he was taken from camp and we
heard no encouraging news from him; but nevertheless when the message
reached us it was quite a shock. He was Senior Corporal in the Company
and was extremely popular. His body was sent to his home in Auburn,
N.Y., where it was met by a bereaved mother and carefully laid away
near the side of his father.

Two days after the death of Corporal Roe occurred the tragic death of
Private Peter Reddy by drowning in the surf. He evidently got beyond
his depth and was caught in an undertow which speedily exhausted his
strength. Private John B. Buck, of Company B, Second Alabama, seeing
Reddy's danger, immediately swam out to his assistance and after an
heroic struggle finally brought him, already dead, within reach of
willing hands. But all the efforts at resuscitating him were unavailing
and the surgeon pronounced him dead. Not being satisfied with this
official announcement, his comrades carried him to the company street
and worked over him for nearly an hour, but without result. He left at
home a wife and three young children. The Company felt these two deaths
severely. We had now lost five men from the ranks. Men were going to
the hospital daily, and we wondered on whom the lightning would next
fall.

In the midst of all this gloom suddenly appeared the commission
appointed by the Governor to investigate the condition of the Second
and its willingness and fitness to proceed to Cuba. This commission was
composed of Gen. Bird W. Spencer, Inspector General of Rifle Practice
State of New Jersey, Senator William M. Johnson, and ex-Judge James M.
Van Valen. General Spencer polled the nine companies at Jacksonville
camp and the one on provost guard in the city; Senator Johnson, Company
G, in charge of the rifle range, and Judge Van Valen, our Company at
the seashore. I was delighted to be recognized by the Judge as the son
of a once close friend of his. The result of the poll determined the
Governor to petition the War Department to have our Regiment mustered
out.




PART SIXTH




PABLO BEACH AND THE JOURNEY HOME

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

September 2d the Regiment moved down and occupied the ground to the
south of us about one mile and one hundred yards from the ocean. The
ground was covered with scrub palmettos, the roots of which ran all
over the ground. This necessitated considerable axe work before tents
could be pitched, and it was late in the evening when the camp was
finally in a condition to sleep. Rattlesnakes seemed all too plentiful
in this scrub and boldly invaded the camp. One careless young man
crawled into his tent without first exploring its interior and was
badly bitten by one of these horrible reptiles. The idea of sleeping
amongst such bedfellows was anything but pleasant, and the weather now
becoming stormy and cooler, the danger from the snakes increased, for
they had a natural tendency to seek the warmth which they could find
alongside a sleeping body. Before we left other regiments camped to
the south of our Regiment, notably Colonel Bryan's Nebraskan.

A favorable pastime of the boys was to go out to the beach at daylight
for a swim in the surf and incidentally gather the pretty delicate
ribbed shells, which seemed to reflect all the rays of the rising sun,
which here shone out in all its glory. This King of Day made a most
gorgeous picture, such as I had believed existed only in an artist's
very elastic imagination. His golden shafts of beauty will never fade
from my memory. We made quite a collection of shells and sent them
home. There were two vacancies among the Corporals owing to the deaths
of Roe and Cohen. Charles H. Wallis and Ed W. Killmer were appointed to
fill those positions.

One evening, some time after taps had sounded and just as the boys had
begun to have a drowsy feeling that sleeping on pine boards wasn't so
very bad after all, a considerable commotion was raised in camp by the
cry of fire. We hurriedly kicked off our blankets, gave a hitch or two
to our trousers to keep them on, and then sallied out. One of the four
frame houses at the north edge of our camp was on fire. These houses
were built of only one thickness of board, having no plaster or lath.
Standing in front and looking sharp, one could see pigs rooting behind
the house. The building was like tinder and burned fiercely.

As we passed the quarters of the company of Texans who were on guard
with us, their bugler was trying to blow his head off with a lot of
weird, shrill blasts, which their Captain kindly explained in forcible
language was the "fire-call," and he'd be so and so if he wouldn't
court-martial every son of a Texan if they didn't fall in and obey
orders. There was considerable confusion around the house for a while,
but the soldiers soon got to work under the leadership of the officers.
Members of our Company climbed up the front porch and to the roof of
the adjoining house, not thirty feet away, and sat there for over an
hour wetting the roof and sides, while the steam floated around them.
During the conflagration the half wild hogs and their litters would
run up close to the flames, stare stupidly into the cauldron until it
became too hot for them, when they would scamper away, grunting and
squealing, into the brush. The house burned completely up, for not a
stick was visible after it died out.

At this time we received word that the Regiment was to be mustered
out, and a Regular Army officer who had been detailed to our Regiment
ordered us to prepare our books for transmission to the War Department.
This writing up of the records was a complete revelation to the
companies. Not one in the Regiment had made any successful attempt to
keep the books properly. G Company probably came the nearest to it, and
theirs were the first to be O K'd. But it was over two weeks after the
order was issued before the mustering officers could state just when
the Regiment could start for home.

The final week proved a busy one indeed and the patience of the
clerical force of the Regiment was tried sorely. Sergeant Baxter,
Private Stevens and myself were detailed for this work, and we kept at
it every day and sometimes far into the night. No instructions other
than verbal had been given to start the machinery in motion. Nobody
seemed to know just what should be done. Tedious work performed with
care had to be done over again. Missing orders, letters and other
documents had to be accounted for and records which could not be
procured had to have affidavits made out to that effect.

[Illustration]

When the men of the National Guard were mustered into service they had
the uniform given them by the State, which in some instances had been
worn over four years. They also received at Sea Girt new suits of State
uniforms to replace old ones and got them with the understanding that
the State would not charge for them. In one or two instances clothes
were torn to get a new suit. Now the United States charges these same
National Guardsmen for two suits of clothes--the suit which had been
worn four years and the new one which did not fit, and in many cases
had never been worn. The total amount charged us by the Government
was over twenty-one dollars and this amount was deducted from each
soldier's clothing allowance in the last payment.

The final order for striking tents was received on the 20th of
September, and daylight of the 22d found us all ready to throw the
tents, strap on our knapsacks and start home. The tents and baggage
of the Company had to be loaded on flat cars. To do this a car of
lumber had to be unloaded. It belonged to Colonel Bryan's Regiment and
his men were going at the unloading in such a matter of fact way as
to exasperate Lieutenant Blake, and at his order a dozen of our boys
jumped on the load and commenced to get rid of it in such a way as to
open the eyes of the Nebraskans. They were roundly chafed by their
Lieutenant "for allowing a lot of Jerseymen to put you to sleep in
unloading lumber, you who have handled it all your lives."

After this was completed the Company's luggage was packed away solidly
upon this car and we were called into company formation ready for the
train; but the railroad could only take one battalion at a time and
it was after 1 o'clock before we could get started. The train had
passed through a heavy shower and the floors of each car and the wooden
bottoms to the seats were deep in water which had come in at the open
windows. A heavy shower drenched us as we marched through Jacksonville.
The boys received hearty handshakes from the friends they had made.

[Illustration]

We were worrying about our wet blankets, which were strapped on top
of our knapsacks, when we were ushered into Pullman sleeping coaches.
It was an agreeable surprise and we immediately proceeded to ensconce
ourselves in the most comfortable positions. In a short time, amid
a lot of noise and banging of cartridges, we drew out of the depot,
scurried out past camps and through groves, catching a glimpse of
Torrey's rough riders, with whom we had left one of our number, out
over rushing torrents, swelled to overflowing by the recent rains and
covering vast areas with their yellow tumbling waters.

These we passed cautiously for fear of washouts. As we passed to the
rear of Savannah it grew dark; but sitting musing at the window
I could not help noting the wild, desolate region we were passing
through. Here and there stood some giant tree stark naked in the
moonlight and swaying from the branches, with gruesome effect, was that
remarkable product of nature, Spanish or Florida moss, and I could not
help recalling the shuddering stories told by Sherman's troopers of
ghosts and dead men, clanking chains and bloodhounds of the Southern
forest. The palmettos reared their shaggy heads in outline against the
sky, for all the world like a jack-in-the-box of our childhood days;
but I was here interrupted by my bedfellow, who insisted on my turning
in, which I reluctantly did. But wasn't it jolly to lay on something
softer than a plank? And after being served with our old stand-by,
coffee, from a bathtub, we slept soundly.

We passed through Columbia, South Carolina, due north to Charlotte,
North Carolina, and Salisbury, Greensboro, to Danville, Virginia,
places made historic by Sherman and after the surrender at Appomattox.
We stopped nearly an hour at Danville, and when we finally started
again had a goodly stock of everything to eat. Up to this point we had
passed acres of cotton in bloom, that farther south being taller and
handsomer plants, and every stop brought portions of the royal plant
of the South into the cars. In the early days of the Civil War the
triumphant voice of the Confederacy proclaimed "King Cotton rules the
earth." But before that strife of brothers ended the thunderous tones
of the North drowned that in the South with "Corn, not Cotton, is
King," and verily it proved so.

[Illustration]

Lynchburg and Charlotteville, Virginia, ushered us into the tobacco
district. But we saw very little of this plant, for it had just been
gathered. Darkness settled down on us before reaching the latter
town. Coffee awaited us there, and we were roused up at 10 o'clock
to receive it in its virgin liquid purity. Nearly half the car as a
result was awake all the rest of the night. At 4 a.m. on Saturday, we
reached Washington and were greatly surprised and pleased to find that
a bountiful lunch had been prepared for us by the good and thoughtful
women of the Pension Bureau--grapes, apples, sandwiches and the best
coffee we had had for five months. There will always remain in years
to come one warm spot in the heart of each one of our boys for the
patriotic devotion of these excellent women.

But now came a kaleidoscopic change. Instead of indifferently
cultivated fields, barren wastes and swamps, behold here were
fields teeming with corn and garden truck of all kinds. The farmers
were out with their men hilling up the rows of celery, parsley and
onions; fine pasture lands spread out before us; well fed cattle
standing contentedly under drooping willows, and, to crown all,
well built, substantial farm houses and barns, all denoted with an
unmistakable stamp that which can be seen all through our Northern
states--prosperity. Baltimore was reached at 7, Wilmington at 8, and
Philadelphia at about 10 in the morning.

[Illustration]

From Washington we had the extreme pleasure of going real fast, our
train now running over the double tracks of the Pennsylvania Railroad.
Speculation was rife as to when we would reach Sea Girt. Every stop
or slow down would surely bring forth an impatient exclamation, and
then wagers would be made all over again. But while this was going on
we passed over the Delaware, and as the Jersey side was reached the
enthusiasm vented itself in cheers, as we fully realized how near we
were to home, and then how we did make time. We fairly seemed to fly,
but it was all too slow, past farming-lands one acre of which was
worth a dozen in the South; apple trees loaded with ripe fruit; fields
of corn ready for the sickle, yellow pumpkins, savoring of delicious
pies; _these_ were familiar home scenes, but temporarily lost sight of
in our recent surroundings; past historic New Brunswick, Freehold and
Princeton. At about 1.30 we pulled into Manasquan with Camp Voorhees
in plain sight. Here we unloaded and, escorted by the Fourth Regiment
Band, marched to camp, where Company L was taken in tow by Company L of
the Fourth, and so on through the battalion. But it was a sight to see
the fine rosy potatoes they had and the butter, "all you want on your
bread." We marveled greatly, to say the least. This lunch was quickly
over, and we boarded our section again. After several tedious waits we
finally reached Rutherford a little before 7 in the evening, amid red
fire and exploding crackers.

Through a dense mass of humanity the company marched. The scenes
attending our leaving for the war were again enacted, but with
three-fold vigor. Our relatives and friends struggled desperately to
break through and forcibly grasp some husband, brother or son, and
failing in this, would hysterically call out. Some were weeping, some
were laughing, but it was all joy unalloyed. Our drill and discipline
told to advantage here, and we succeeded in keeping our line, otherwise
we would have been scattered to the winds.

We were formally welcomed back by Mayor Turner, representing the
people of Rutherford and surrounding towns, and invited to partake of
a banquet in the near future. Lieutenant Blake now saw that it was
useless to try and hold the men together longer, so the final command
to break ranks was given and then every man "Tommy" of us was hugged as
he had never been hugged before. One week later the company assembled
at Sea Girt and there received their furloughs, which held good until
the final muster out at Paterson, November 21, 1898.

       *       *       *       *       *

The month of May, 1898, had not passed before relief committees had
organized for the purpose of looking after the families of those
soldiers of the National Guard who decided that their duty to the State
and the country demanded their presence at the front, and little ones
at home were left without a bread winner and protector.

The members of this Relief Committee were Mayor E.J. Turner of
Rutherford, Mayor William McKenzie of East Rutherford, Rev. J.Y.
Hubach, and Messrs. Charles Burrows, Oscar Gunz, William H. Smith,
James Leyland, Cornelius Collins, Edward A. Jeanneret, James A. Morgan,
William H. Taylor and P.B.S. Hodges. This committee received a total of
$1,218.64, all of which was spent in the good cause.

[Illustration]

Sunday, July 10th, a Service of Thanksgiving took place at Grace
Episcopal Church. Special prayers were offered for sick and wounded
soldiers and sailors, and for those who mourned dead heroes. It was
in accordance with the proclamation issued by the President, and the
sermon by the Rev. Henry M. Ladd, was along National lines, emphasizing
the duties of the Christian soldier. After the presentation of the
offering, the congregation and clergyman read antiphonally the psalm
for thanksgiving after a naval victory, singing at its close the
"Gloria in Excelsis." The service closed with the prayer of thanks for
victory at sea, and a prayer for peace, followed by the Benediction.

It was a stirring service, and to have taken part in it was the event
of a lifetime, and not likely to be repeated. Services of like nature
were held in all the churches.

Tuesday evening, July 26th, a number of kindly volunteers, under
the auspices of the Relief Committee, gave an entertainment in the
Armory, which netted about $150. It was an excellent one, combining
serio-comic drama with highly cultured singing and pleasing tableaux.
The names of these devoted friends were as follows: "A Quiet Family,"
Messrs. George H. Whitman, James A. Morgan, Mrs. Mary Davis, Miss
Lizzie Davis; orchestra, Mr. Louis Baxter and others; Grace Church
choir, Mr. Charles H. Sunderland, leader, Mrs. T.N. Glover, Mrs.
McAvoy, Mrs. Sunderland, the Misses D. Stevens, B. Stevens, Fanton,
Williams, Reece, Johnstone, Smith, Elliott, Semken, Cosse and Haywood,
and Messrs. Douglass, Barrows, Elliott, MacAdee, Parker, Critchley,
Ahrens, Burns, Brown, Green, Shaw and Wilkins; tableaux: Miss Maude
MacHarg, Mr. Wilkin Bookstaver and the rest of the company.

[Illustration]

Another entertainment took place Thursday, July 28, which was very
successful, the net proceeds being $91, and was sent to Jacksonville
to provide better food for the sick of the company. The entertainment
was managed by Mrs. W.E. Fullagar, who took considerable interest
in the welfare of the company (she and her husband being with us at
Jacksonville and Pablo Beach for nearly a month). Those taking part
deserve to have a place in this narrative, and they follow: Mrs. M.
Casta, Mr. Louis Baxter, Miss Mae Games Amery, Mr. L. Botting, Miss
Nettie Dannheim, Mr. Arthur H. Hargrave, the Concordia Maennerchor
of Carlstadt, Miss Mabel Taylor King, and six members of the Kirmess
"Hornpipe Dance." Captain Ely, home on furlough, told anecdotes of camp
life, which were very interesting. Another entertainment took place the
week we arrived home, the proceeds of which were given to the Relief
Committee.

One year had passed when the company again assembled upon the
anniversary of its return from camp life; old friendships were renewed,
and yarns spun, while the good things disappeared at the well-spread
table.

September 30th, 1899, the company paraded through the streets of New
York on the occasion of the welcome to Admiral George Dewey, and all
along the line patriotic citizens gave its enthusiastic endorsement of
the manly devotion to the flag which L Company maintained through five
months of trying camp life in Southern climes.




PART SEVENTH




ROSTER OF L COMPANY.


CAPTAIN.

                             _P.O. Address._

 Addison Ely               Rutherford, N.J.


FIRST LIEUTENANT.

 Joseph J. Blake                Rutherford.


SECOND LIEUTENANT.

 Robert A. Brunner              Rutherford.


FIRST SERGEANT.

 Edward M. Clift                Rutherford.


QUARTERMASTER SERGEANT.

 Addison Ely, Jr.               Rutherford.


SERGEANTS.

 Charles Dabinett               Rutherford.
 Frank Van Roden                Rutherford.
 John T. Collins                Rutherford.
 Frederick W. Baxter            Rutherford.


CORPORALS.

 George H. Roe                  Rutherford.
 Hugh R. Rusk                   Rutherford.
 Bennett Cohen                  Rutherford.
 George W. Petty                Rutherford.
 William M. Cormack             Rutherford.
 Robert A. Burgess              Rutherford.
 Frank Koch                     Rutherford.
 Harry C. Harrington            Rutherford.
 Walter Vandenburgh             Rutherford.
 John Festanau                  Rutherford.
 Walter S. Major                Rutherford.
 Frank T. Yerreance             Rutherford.


MUSICIANS.

 John F. Quinn                    Paterson.
 William Allen                    Paterson.


ARTIFICER.

 Julius W. Doerflinger           Woodridge.


WAGONER.

 William Jonsen                 Rutherford.


PRIVATES.

 Alverson, August               Rutherford.
 Balletto, Frank                Rutherford.
 Baxter, Charles H.             Rutherford.
 Brazer, William                Rutherford.
 Beutelspacher, Theodore         Carlstadt.
 Clift, George S.                  Passaic.
 Clark, John E.                 Rutherford.
 Craig, Robert L.             Little Ferry.
 Crear, Lyman S.                Rutherford.
 Connelly, John                 Rutherford.
 Dabinett, John                 Rutherford.
 Dabinett, Henry R.             Rutherford.
 Dehn, Lawrence C.               Lyndhurst.
 Doyle, Thomas W.               Rutherford.
 DeWitt, William                Rutherford.
 Earley, Albert                   Paterson.
 Fake, Guy L.                   Rutherford.
 Fullagar, John E.              Rutherford.
 Feder, David                     Paterson.
 Gaffney, Peter                 Rutherford.
 Gillen, Alexander P.      Washington, D.C.
 Girard, Emile L.               Rutherford.
 Greuter, Valentine              Woodridge.
 Greuter, Frank J.              Rutherford.
 Hey, Alfred J.                 Rutherford.
 Hannon, Thomas O.                Paterson.
 Heintzman, Louis E.            Rutherford.
 Hollenstein, George W.          Carlstadt.
 Hope, Edward F.                Rutherford.
 Hobson, Winfield B.              Paterson.
 Hollenbeck, Charles            Rutherford.
 Hopper, Irving                 Rutherford.
 Horton, Jay T.                   Paterson.
 Huen, Henry A.                   Paterson.
 Kotzenberg, John J.            Rutherford.
 Kellerman, Otto                Rutherford.
 Killmer, Edward W.             Rutherford.
 Kent, Walter D.                Rutherford.
 Lees, William C.              Jersey City.
 Major, Daniel                  Rutherford.
 Miller, John W.                Rutherford.
 Miller, William H.             Rutherford.
 Miller, James A.               Rutherford.
 MacDonough, Thomas             Rutherford.
 Macher, Walter                  Carlstadt.
 McKeown, James F.                Paterson.
 McIntyre, Thomas                Kingsland.
 McBride, William H.              Paterson.
 Newman, Henry                    Paterson.
 Newland, Charles W.            Rutherford.
 Nohrden, Otto                  Rutherford.
 O'Niel, William H.             Rutherford.
 Parkhill, John               Carlton Hill.
 Platz, Henry                    Carlstadt.
 Reddy, Peter                   Rutherford.
 Rhoads, Henry W.             Carlton Hill.
 Rodgers, Robert                  Paterson.
 Rohrbach, Aaron                Rutherford.
 Ratsch, John                   Rutherford.
 Schrieber, Curt                Rutherford.
 Schrieber, John J.             Rutherford.
 Schaefer, Louis                 Carlstadt.
 Schulz, Otto                    Carlstadt.
 Smith, John                    Rutherford.
 Smith, Walter F.               Rutherford.
 Smith, Gustav                  Rutherford.
 Stephens, John J.            Carlton Hill.
 Stephens, J.                    Carlstadt.
 Stevens, Arthur W.             Rutherford.
 Stevens, Frank W.       Hasbrouck Heights.
 Toense, Albert                 Rutherford.
 Thompson, Matthew              Rutherford.
 Trent, Decatur                 Rutherford.
 Van Roden, Arthur C.           Rutherford.
 Van Caders, Cornelius          Hackensack.
 Van Austinbridge, Nicholas       Paterson.
 Ward, George E.                Rutherford.
 Wallis, Charles H.             Rutherford.
 Weber, Oscar                    Carlstadt.
 Willis, Edgar E.               Rutherford.
 Willis, Joseph T.              Rutherford.
 Wirtz, William                   Paterson.
 Wilson, Isaac, Jr.             Rutherford.
 Yetter, Conrad                  Carlstadt.


PROMOTIONS, TRANSFERS, ETC.


Captain Ely, Provost Marshal, City of Jacksonville.

Sergeant Ely, Brigade Color-Sergeant.

Sergeant Collins, Regimental Color-Sergeant.

Corporal Vandenburgh, Clerk at Corps Headquarters.

Private Alverson, promoted to be Artificer, vice Doerflinger, reduced
at his own request.

Private Baxter, discharged for disability.

Private Crear, transferred to Troop B, 2d U.S. Vol. Cavalry.

Private Doyle, Clerk to Provost Marshal.

Private Gillen, transferred to hospital at Washington, D.C.

Private Greuter, Corral Master with rank of Lance Corporal.

Private Hild, transferred to Hospital Corps, U.S. Army.

Private Horton, stenographer, Adjutant's office.

Private Kent, transferred to Hospital Corps, U.S. Army.

Private Killmer, promoted to be Corporal, September 1, 1898.

Private Linzell, transferred to Hospital Corps, U.S. Army.

Private Schmidt, transferred to Hospital Corps, U.S. Army.

Private F.M. Stevens, transferred to Hospital Corps, U.S. Army.

Private Wallis, promoted to be Corporal, September 1, 1898.


DEATHS.


Private Kotzenberg, died August 12, 1898, at Second Division Hospital,
Jacksonville, Fla., typhoid fever. Buried at Carlstadt.

Private Newman, died August 18, 1898, at Second Division Hospital,
Jacksonville, Fla., typhoid fever. Buried at Paterson.

Corporal Cohen, died August 19, 1898, at Second Division Hospital,
Jacksonville, Fla., typhoid fever. Buried at Carlstadt.

Corporal Roe, died August 26, 1898, at Second Division Hospital,
Jacksonville, Fla., typhoid fever. Buried at Auburn, N.Y.

Private Reddy, drowned August 29, 1898, at Pablo Beach, Fla. Buried at
Lyndhurst, N.J.

Lance Corporal Frank Greuter, died November 7, 1898. Buried at
Carlstadt.

Private Valentine Greuter, died July 29, 1899. Buried at Carlstadt.


 "God bless our native land
 Firm may she ever stand
 Through storm and night."

[Illustration]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IN CAMP WITH L COMPANY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
